--- PAGE 1 ---
1 
 
1. INTRODUCTION  
 
These rules are presented in a Programmed Instruction format so that players need not read the entire 
rulebook to begin play. At various points in the rulebook you will be told to stop reading and play a 
specific scenario which uses the rules you've read up to that point. 
 
2. THE CARDS 
 
 2.1 CARD TYPES: There are two types of cards in the game. The regulation-sized playing cards which 
create the flow of play are called Action Cards. The other cards are a representative sample of the 
actual men and Armoured Fighting Vehicles which engaged in WWII combat and are called Personality 
cards. A player's forces are composed of certain Personality cards which engage in combat and 
manoeuvre through the medium of the Action cards. 
     
2.2 CARD INFORMATION:  
Each Action card contains an illustration and the name of its function, a quantitative modifier or strength, 
and, brief notes regarding its main uses. In addition, each Action card contains a large black or red 
number ranging from 0-6 in its upper right hand corner. This is the Random Number used to resolve 
chance situations whenever one occurs, and has nothing to do with the actual play of an Action card. In 
addition, each card has a row of 10 black or red numbers printed along its bottom which randomly 
indicate a certain numbered position (called Random Position Numbers-RPN) within a group to receive 
a particular action. The purple-red numbers printed directly above the Random Position Numbers are 
used only to assist in readily identifying the Random Position Numbers in relation to each other. Both 
the Random Number and Random Position Numbers are ignored except when drawing a card from the 
Draw Pile solely for the purpose of generating a Random Number or Random Position [14.6]. Lastly, 
each Action card has a small purple-red number called an Inventory Number in the upper left hand 
corner which is used solely to give each Action card an individual identity should the owner need to 
check for a missing card. Each type of Action card is illustrated in the specific rule section which defines 
its use. 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
2.0 Is it necessary to use an RPN for determining the position in a one man group? 
A. No. Use an RPN draw only to determine the position of the effect (Sniper, CC Draw, Malfunction, etc.) if there 
is more than one man in the group. However, see section 19.0, Malfunction for special cases when an RPN is not 
necessary for a multi-man group. 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
2.21 SPLIT ACTIONS: Some Action cards are divided in two parts, separating two different actions by 
nationality. A player may use this card only for the action listed on his side of the card as indicated by 
the nationality symbol(s) printed on that side of the card. If the same nationality is listed on both sides, 
the card may be used for either action, but not both.  
 
 
Action card 
Personality card 
Personality card

--- PAGE 2 ---
2 
 
 
[EX: Action card #159 can be used as a Rally 1 card by all nationalities (except Italians), but as a 
Movement card by the Russians and Japanese only].  
 
2.22: COWER CARD: Any card defined by a scenario as unusable by one or both players is considered 
a Cower card for that player. A Cower card has no value to its owner (other than inverted use as an 
Open Ground Terrain card; see [8.1]). It nonetheless must be counted as part of the owner's hand until it 
can be legally discarded [4.3] per that player's discard capability.  
 
 
[EX: Action card #130 is always a Cower card for the Russian and Italian player (the Russian and Italian 
symbols are absent), but can be used as a Smoke card by the German, US, British and French players.]  
 
2.3 CARD REPRESENTATION: There are numerous types of Personality cards, but in the Basic Game 
we will limit ourselves to those representing single men. An example is illustrated below. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Defense values  
Rank 
Personality card number 
Soldier name 
Nationality symbol 
Weapon firepower 
Weapon  
Close combat value 
Weapon malfunction number 
Weapon repair numbers 
Points D.Y.O. (do your own) 
Leader type (SL or ASL) 
Pinned values 
(in red) 
Rank symbol

--- PAGE 3 ---
3 
 
2.4 SCENARIOS: All scenarios are composed of seven basic component parts: Type, Forces, Action 
Deck Composition, Special Rules, Victory Conditions, Time Limit, and a declaration of the player who 
must form his groups, place terrain, and play first. Players should remember that although most 
scenarios list forces for each of the seven nationalities in the game, each scenario is usually played by 
only two nationalities at a time. In addition, all scenarios which do not depict some type of meeting 
engagement will list two forces for each player; one to be used if that player takes the offensive role, and 
the other to be used if he plays the defensive role. Defensive forces are listed inside a barbed wire 
entangled rectangle. A player never uses both forces in the same scenario. Scenarios with assigned 
offensive and defensive forces actually have four different variations of the same theme; meeting 
engagement scenarios only two. Adjustments to the Action card deck are listed after the (
) 
symbol. The player who must form his groups, place terrain, and play first is shown after the "1st" 
symbol. A bayonet (
) after the "1st" symbol indicates that the side with the offensive role 
must play first; a barbed wire entanglement symbolizes the defensive side. The number following the 
sand timer symbol      (           ) indicates the number of complete plays through the Action Deck which 
comprise the scenario Time Limit. 
 
3. PREPARE TO PLAY  
 
3.1 Players begin play by selecting a scenario from among those provided or creating one themselves 
as per rule section [43.0]. Sides are chosen with each player taking the indicated Personality cards and 
setting the remainder aside. The Time chit is placed (with the "Deck 1" side face up) on the Discard tray.  
   
 
 
3.2 The player indicated by the scenario as having the first play now sits opposite his opponent and 
places his Personality cards face up in front of himself in two to four groups of two to ten cards each 
(EXC: AFV's and IG's [28.11]). Groups should be separated somewhat to make it easy to distinguish 
one from another. Each group is identified from the player's left to right as Group A, B, C, and D.  
The opposing player now sets up his groups, attempting to place them directly opposite his opponent's 
groups as much as possible. A player may not leave gaps in his setup; his first group must be Group A, 
his second must be Group B, etc. For example, if the German player chooses to have two groups and 
the American player three, American Groups A and B would be set up directly opposite the like 
designated German groups, with the American Group C set up adjacent to his Group B and directly 
opposite no German group.  
 
 
 
 
Once play begins, these groups may be altered only by losses due to combat and individual transfers 
from one group to another [17.8][20.8], although the identity of a group can change [17.7]. Each group 
will act independently of any other group during the course of play and any Action cards placed on a 
group will affect only the Personality cards actually in that group. With this and the scenario Victory 
Conditions in mind, players should choose the composition of each group and the total number and size 
of groups carefully at the outset. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
3.1 What are the 'valid' historical match-ups? 
A. Please refer to the table below: 
Nation
Germany
Japan
Italy 
U.S.A.
Britain
Russia
France 
Germany
-- 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Japan
N 
-- 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Italy
Y 
N 
-- 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
U.S.A.
Y 
Y 
Y 
-- 
N 
N 
Y 
Britain
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
-- 
N 
Y 
Russia
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
-- 
N 
France
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
-- 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
3.3 Each man within a group likewise assumes a position within that group relative to the others. The 
leftmost Personality card in each group occupies the "1" position. The Personality card to his right 
occupies the "2" position, and so on up to "10" for a ten man group. This position within the group 
[A] XXXX 
[B] XXXXXX 
  
[A] XXXXX 
[B] XXX 
[C] XXXX

--- PAGE 4 ---
4 
changes every time a man occupying a lower numbered position within the group is eliminated. For 
example, if the second man in a five man group is eliminated, the third man assumes position 2, the 
fourth man position 3, and the fifth man position 4. Men may switch positions within a group during their 
player turn but must do so as the sole action of that group for that turn. Such a position switch is 
included as part of any successful weapon acquisition [18.2] or assistant crew assignment [11.12]. 
3.4 Place the “Group Card” at the head of each group and place a round wooden marker to the lower 
left corner to range number 0. This is the starting Relative Range to opposing groups. 
 
    
Group Card 
 
3.5 The Action deck is shuffled and each player is dealt a full hand face down as per below table: 
 
Nationality 
Full hand 
German 
5 cards 
American 
6 cards 
Russian 
4 cards 
British 
5 cards 
Japanese 
4 cards 
French 
6 cards 
Italian 
4 cards 
 
Place the remainder of the Action deck face down in the card tray to serve as a Draw Pile. As Action 
cards are used and/or discarded, they are placed face down in the Discard Pile of the card tray. Each 
player's cards are kept concealed from his opponent until played. (To avoid possible confusion, a 
labelled tape should be used to identify that section of the tray used for discards.) 
3.6 INITIAL TERRAIN: The player specified by the scenario as having the first play now has the option 
of placing one Terrain card in his possession on one of his or his opponent's groups. Note: an opponent 
cannot reject a Terrain card [7.32] during Prepare for Play. The opposing player then has the option of 
playing one Terrain card he has in a similar manner except that he may not place his Terrain card on a 
group which already has one in play. The first player may now play another Terrain card (if he has one) 
on any of his or his opponent's groups not already containing one. Players continue to alternate 
placement of terrain in this manner, one card at a time, until neither player has further Terrain cards or 
the inclination to use them. All remaining groups without Terrain cards begin play in Open Ground. Then 
each player, in turn, draws as many cards as he just played so as to once again have a full hand (up to 
his nationality limit). Artificial Terrain cards (Wire, Smoke), and/or inverted cards used as Open Ground 
cards, and scenario defined Cower cards cannot be placed prior to play. The game is now ready to 
begin.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
3.6 When a scenario specifies that a certain type of card must be removed from the deck when discarded unused or 
as a RNC/RPC draw, is it considered a "scenario defined Cower Card?"  
A. Yes. Example: a Buildings card can never be placed during Prepare for Play in scenario A. 
CLARIFICATION: Scenario defined cower cards may be freely discarded by the Japanese as are cards that are 
cower cards for their side. e.g. Snipers and/or minefields as the attacker in scenario C. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Range numbers 
Wooden marker

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A typical set up for Scenario A. 
German sets up in two Groups (A and 
B). American sets up in three Groups 
(A,B and C). All groups start at range 
number zero) 
 
 
4. SEQUENCE OF PLAY  
4.1 The game begins with the player specified by the scenario taking his play first. [In Design Your Own 
(henceforth referred to as DYO) scenarios the player having spent less points on the construction of his 
force gets to move first with ties resolved by RNC draw.] When he is finished, the opposing player takes 
his turn. Player turns are then alternated until one of the participants achieves his Victory Conditions as 
required by the scenario in play or the Time Limit expires. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.1 in French/Italian scenarios, who sets up and plays first in scenarios A, B, & J if no German is played? 
A. The side with the least DYO points. Failing that, the Axis player, defined as, in order, German, Japanese, 
Italian, French. 
VARIANT: Since scenarios A, B and J are meeting engagements, it is unrealistic to assume that the Axis player 
will always have the "advantage" of first move. If both players agree, each player draws a card and compares 
card control numbers (the little blue number between 1 and 162). High draw sets up and plays first. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.2 ACTION CAPABILITY: A player turn consists of a player performing a maximum of one action in 
each group of Personality cards he controls. He need not predesignate those actions; i.e. he may 
observe the results of one group's attack before deciding what action, if any, to take with another group. 
There are five types of possible actions.  
4.21 Perform movement by playing a Terrain or Movement card on a group [5.1]. Only one card may be 
played on each group (EXC: [35.4]). 
4.22 Make a fire attack by playing one or more Fire cards, and selecting the group which is firing and its 
target group [6.1].

--- PAGE 6 ---
6 
4.23 Reverse the status of pinned men by playing a Rally card on their group [10.2]. Only one such card 
can be played as a single action per group per turn. 
4.24 Attempt to infiltrate an enemy position or enter Close Combat [20.0]. 
4.25 Alter the composition of the group by performing one of the following actions: weapon repair 
attempt [19.3], weapon acquisition attempt [18.2], change crew assignments [11.13], place smoke [13.2], 
attempt to entrench [36.1], attempt individual transfer [17.8], remove wire [13.33], or remove mines 
[24.5]. 
4.3 DISCARD CAPABILITY: Following the performance of all actions, the player must discard all used 
cards as well as any placed cards of an eliminated group. In addition, depending on his nationality and 
whether or not he performed any action during that turn, he may discard one or more unused cards from 
his hand as well.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.3 & 14.5 During a multi-card discard, can the player observe the results of one discard before deciding where 
and/or if to discard another? 
A. No. Rule 7.3 and 7.32 specifically state that discards are resolved prior to the next turn, not prior to the next 
discard 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
The discard capability per nationality is shown in the table below: 
 
Nationality 
Discard capability 
German  
 
A German player may always discard one (but never more than one) unused card 
from his hand, regardless of the number of actions he performed during his player 
turn. 
American 
 
An American player may discard up to two unused cards from his hand, but only if he 
performed no other action during his player turn. 
Russian 
A Russian player may discard any number of unused cards from his hand, but only if 
he performed no other action during his player turn  
British 
A British player may discard up to two unused cards from his hand, but only if he 
performed no other action during his player turn. 
Japanese 
A Japanese player may discard up to two unused cards from his hand, but only if he 
performed no other action during his player turn. 
French 
A French player may discard up to one unused card from his hand, but only if he 
performed no other action during his player turn. 
Italian 
An Italian player may discard up to two unused cards from his hand, but only if he 
performed no other action during his player turn. 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
Discard Capability, 4.32, 4.33, 14.5 and 44.1 Can nationalities with multi-card discard capability discard two or 
more wires on a single group in a single turn? 
A. Yes. 
Examples: 
[NOTE: The examples assume that the indicated discards are valid for the scenario and situation (i.e. the 
discarding side has sniper capability).] 
Non-moving Group: May discard any number of SNIPERS and/or any number of WIRE cards. 
Moving Group: May discard one terrain card and/or any number of snipers and/or any number of WIRE cards. 
Rejecting the terrain does NOT reject the WIRE. If the terrain is accepted and WIRE is not allowed in that type of 
terrain (e.g. MARSH) then the WIRE is discarded. 
Two Moving Groups Exchanging Group Letters: Same as a moving group with two additions. If either group 
rejects a terrain discard, the position exchange is cancelled. If terrain is discarded on one group and accepted, the 
moving player MUST complete the position exchange by placing the other group in terrain (including open ground) 
on his next turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.4 All cards used to perform an action other than movement are revealed and placed in the Discard 
tray face down. Movement and Terrain cards remain face up on the table in front of their respective 
groups. Cards which are discarded from a player's hand without being played need not be revealed 
before being placed face down in the Discard tray. Card(s) discarded on an opposing group(s) are 
revealed and remain on top of the opposing group or placed in the Discard tray as required. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.4, 5.41 & 7.2 Are the cards drawn for resolution placed on the table, or are they immediately discarded? This is 
important for determining which and how many cards go into the deck if the resolution spans decks. 
A. First line of 4.4. They and their Fire card(s) are immediately discarded.

--- PAGE 7 ---
7 
Common practice is to leave all cards used in an attack on the table until the attack is resolved, or a draw is 
needed and the draw pile is empty. In the latter case, use some method to indicate the next PC to be attacked (or 
other pending action), discard all cards used in the attack to that point, re-shuffle, and then continue the attack. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.5 HAND REFILL: The player may now draw at his option as many cards from the Draw pile as is 
necessary to bring the total number of cards in his hand up to his full allotment (EXC: [15.2]). It is now 
the opposing player's turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.5 Refilling one's hand is optional. However, if the decision is made to draw cards, a player MUST draw to a full 
hand. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
4.6 Repeat steps 4.2 - 4.5 until a player achieves his Victory Conditions or the scenario time limit 
expires. Note that a player does not have to take an action or discard in his turn unless his opponent 
has likewise passed in the immediately preceding player turn. 
 
5. MOVEMENT & RANGE DETERMINATION  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5. Movement. Movement cards not played directly to the discard pile cannot be voluntarily cancelled. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5.1 Movement is accomplished by playing Movement cards and, to a lesser extent, Terrain cards. Any 
group may place a Movement card provided it does not currently contain a pinned Personality card. A 
Terrain card may be placed on any group (even one containing pinned Personality cards) provided it 
already has a Movement card of some type in place which is not already covered by another Terrain or 
Wire card. 
5.2 Each group is assumed to occupy the terrain shown on the last Terrain card placed on that group 
unless it has two Movement cards in play (in which case they are in Open Ground). If no Terrain card is 
present (an occurrence only at game start or upon the entrance of reinforcements), the terrain occupied 
is assumed to be Open Ground. The terrain a group currently occupies is a factor in resolving any fire 
attacks made against that group [6.42], and can occasionally affect attacks [6.41] and movement 
[8.42],[8.53] by that group as well. See also [7.4]. 
5.3 Changing the current Terrain card that a group occupies (including placement of a Terrain card on a 
group without one) first requires the presence of a placed Movement card above the last occupied 
Terrain card. Since only one Movement or Terrain card may be played in a single group per player turn 
(EXC: [35.4]), it will take at least two turns for a player to change the terrain of a group once play begins 
(assuming the availability of the necessary Terrain and Movement cards, and non-intervention by the 
opponent). 
5.4 Movement cards are also used to change the relative distance between opposing groups. Each 
Movement card can be placed head up (with the "+1" at the top of the illustration) to represent an 
Advance (forward) movement, or turned upside down to represent a Retreat (reverse movement), or 
sideways to represent lateral movement.  
 
Forward movement 
Retreat movement 
Lateral movement 
 
 
 
 
By playing a Movement card in the forward mode the group is moving in a relative direction toward the 
opposing player, and increasing its range number on their Group Card (by moving the wooden marker) 
while often decreasing the actual distance between it and the opponent's groups. Playing a Movement 
card in the reverse mode simulates the group moving in a direction away from the opposing player, thus 
decreasing its range number, while usually increasing the actual distance between it and opposing 
groups. Placing the card sideways signifies that the group is moving laterally to the opposing player 
without actually changing its range. Note that moving laterally in this manner does not change the

--- PAGE 8 ---
8 
position of any group relative to another or their Relative Ranges except possibly in the case of Lateral 
Group Transfer (see [5.61] & [17.7]). 
5.41 Once a Terrain card is played and accepted on a group, it removes all cards beneath it from further 
consideration until redrawn and played again later in the game [16.2]. Even if a group uses a Movement 
card to retreat, the terrain he retreats to, will be determined by the next Terrain card played on top of 
that Movement card. All cards beneath an accepted, played Terrain card are removed and placed in the 
Discard pile. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
5.41, 4.4, & 7.2 Are the cards drawn for resolution placed on the table, or are they immediately discarded? This is 
important for determining which and how many cards go into the deck if the resolution spans decks. 
A. First line of 4.4. They and their Fire card(s) are immediately discarded.  
Common practice is to leave all cards used in an attack on the table until the attack is resolved, or a draw is 
needed and the draw pile is empty. In the latter case, use some method to indicate the next PC to be attacked (or 
other pending action), discard all cards used in the attack to that point, re-shuffle, and then continue the attack. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5.41 & 7.2 These rules show that placed terrain stays in place until new terrain replaces it. Thus, even though 
terrain may no logner be usable for TEM due to active movement cards, the terrain cards are left on the board, 
and not discarded until terrain is finally placed. Specifically, a terrain card remains on the table regardless of the 
number of movement cards in play on that group.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5.5 All groups start at Relative Range 0 from all opposing groups. This is signified by placing the 
wooden marker at range number 0 on the group card before the start of play. Each time a group plays a 
Movement card in the Advance mode, it is increasing its range number in the Group Card by one (the 
wooden marker moves from range 0 to range 1 as per below illustration). Should a group play a 
Movement card in the Retreat mode, the range is similarly decreased by one.  
 
Before 
After “forward” movement 
 
 
 
 
 
5.51 RETROGRADE: A group may not retreat if, in doing so, it will decrease the Relative Range 
between it and the closest enemy group to < 0. However, even if an enemy group is close enough to 
allow a Retreat, a group already at range number 0 (or less) may play a Movement card in the Retreat 
mode only if that Movement card is also a red RNC. By doing so, the wooden marker moves to the red 
range numbers in the group card.  Thereafter, any further retreat (again accomplished by a red RNC 
Movement card) would accomplish a change of the marker to red 2, 3 etc. All red Range numbers are 
read as negative numbers. Therefore, if two opposing groups have respective range numbers of black 3 
and red 2, they are at Relative Range 1 (3 + -2 = 1), not 5. A Relative Range less than 0 is treated as 0 
for firepower and To Hit purposes.  
[EX: A group at range number 0 can be fired on by a group at range number -1 with all the firepower it 
can muster at Relative Range 0.] 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5.51 Relative Range less than 0 is treated as 0 for firepower and To Hit purposes. Actual Relative Range is used to 
determine if a Group may retrograde. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5.6 RELATIVE RANGE: The actual distance between any two opposing groups is determined by adding 
their respective ranges together. If the sum of their range numbers is > 5, that sum is subtracted from 10 
to achieve the true Relative Range between the groups. The range number 5 (black or red) can be 
exceeded when needed, by flipping the group card to its opposite side.

--- PAGE 9 ---
9 
 
 
For players who have trouble grasping the Relative Range concept, the following chart is provided. 
 
RELATIVE RANGE CHART 
 
Group X at Range No -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 
-1 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 4 
1 
0 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 4 3 
2 
0 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 4 3 2 
3 
0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 4 3 2 1 
4 
0 0 1 2 3 4 5 4 3 2 1 0 
5 
0 1 2 3 4 5 4 3 2 1 0 0 
 
 
 
Group Y at range number 
6 
1 2 3 4 5 4 3 2 1 0 0 0 
 
5.6.1 LATERAL DISTANCE: The Relative Range is further decreased by one (to a minimum of 0) if the 
groups in question are neither directly opposite (same lettered groups) or adjacent (B is adjacent to A 
and C; A is not adjacent to C, D, or E). 
 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5.61 Is the Relative Range only decreased by one even if the groups in question are A and D? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
5.6.2 When dealing with group card ranges > 5 or < 0, players by mutual consent could readjust the 
ranges of every group at the end of each deck during the resulting shuffle. Readjust by reducing positive 
range numbers and increasing negative range numbers by an equal amount so as to maintain the same 
Relative Range between groups. 
 [EX: Black Group A is at range number 6, Black Group B is at range number 3, and Black Group C is at 
range number 0, Red Group A is at range number -2, and Red Group B is at range number -3.  
 
A [6] 
B [3] 
C [0] 
A [-2] 
B [-3] 
 
 
The range numbers should be adjusted by two to: (Black) A:4, B:1, C:-2; (Red) A:0, B:-1.] 
 
A [4] 
B [1] 
C [-2] 
A [0] 
B [-1] 
 
 
5.7 BLOCKING POSITIONS: A group may not move forward if, in so doing, the Relative Range between 
it and its like-named (directly opposite) opposing group would exceed 5 (EXC: AFV, [29.5]). In order to

--- PAGE 10 ---
10 
move further forward, the opposite group whose Range number blocks a further advance would have to 
retreat or be eliminated. 
 
A [1] 
B [5] [1] 
C [2] 
A [-1] 
 
C [3] 
 
[EX: Black Group A and Red Group A are at Relative Range 0, and Red Group B has been eliminated. 
Black Group B has reached range number 5, but was still not at Relative Range 5 with Red Group A so 
it moved to range number 6. They are now at Relative Range 5 (6 + -1 = 5). Note that Black group B has 
moved past Red Group C (i.e. Red Group C is between Black Groups B and C). Neither Group C may 
move forward until the other retreats or is eliminated. The Relative Range between Black Group A and 
Red Group C is actually 3, not 4, due to the two groups not being opposite or directly adjacent. The 
Relative Range between Black Group B and Red Group C is 1 (6 + 3 = 9; 10 - 9 = 1).] 
 
6. FIRE ATTACKS  
 
6.1A player must have a least one Fire card in his hand to perform a fire attack. In addition, the group 
performing the attack must have a combined total of at least the minimum number of firepower factors 
required to use that card. Each Fire card has an FP (firepower) number in the upper middle of the 
illustration which is the minimum number of firepower factors needed to use that Fire card. Separate 
groups may not combine their firepower factors in order to qualify to use a Fire card. A group may fire at 
any opposing group provided it has sufficient firepower at its current Relative Range to that group to use 
its Fire card. 
 
 
 
 
6.2 FIREPOWER: The number of firepower factors a group has available is determined by adding the 
firepower factors of each unpinned man with an operating weapon in the firing group. Note that each 
man has a firepower factor for each of six different Relative Ranges. Only the firepower rating for the 
current Relative Range between the firing and target groups is used. 
 
 
6.3 More than one Fire card may be used by a single group in one fire attack action as long as the firing 
group has at least the sum of all required firepower factors for all Fire cards used. However, the Fire 
Strength of all Fire cards used by that group during that turn would have to be added together to form a 
combined attack.  
Weapon Firepower (FP) at 
various relative ranges (RR)

--- PAGE 11 ---
11 
 
  
 
 
[EX: To use both of these Fire cards in the same fire attack, eight firepower factors would be required in 
the firing group. The unmodified Fire Strength of the attack would then be 4.] 
 
6.4 FIRE STRENGTH: Once it has been determined that the Fire card(s) can be used, determine the 
final Fire Strength of the attack. If the attacking (firing) group is currently moving (has played a 
Movement card with no Terrain card yet placed over it), the Fire Strength of its Fire card(s) is halved 
[12.1].  
6.4.1 Modify the Fire Strength by adding any modifiers due to the attacker's position (see Wire [13.32], 
Stream [8.52], Marsh [8.41], Smoke [13.22], and Elevated Fire [8.31] for examples of Fire Strength 
modifications due to the attacker's position). 
6.42 Modify the resulting Fire Strength by adding any modifiers due to the terrain occupied by the 
defender, including any applicable Smoke and/or Wire cards. 
6.43 Modify the resulting Fire Strength by adding any modifiers caused by the movement status of the 
defending group. 
6.44 At this point, the defender may opt to play any Concealed card in his hand to further modify the Fire 
Strength of the attack. If he does so, the negative modifiers of the Concealed card are added to the Fire 
Strength to derive the final Fire Strength of the attack. 
 
6.5 FIRE COMBAT RESOLUTION: After seeing the final modified Fire Strength of any attack, it is the 
attacker's option whether or not he wishes to resolve that attack or just discard his played Fire card(s) 
(which still constitutes an Action taken). To resolve an attack repeat the following procedure for each 
man in the target group in sequence. Draw the top card from the Draw pile and add the final Fire 
Strength of the attack to the RNC. If the RNC is black, add it to the modified attack strength to obtain the 
Final Combat Resolution Number. If the RNC is red, subtract it from the modified attack strength to 
obtain the Final Combat Resolution Number. Compare the Final Combat Resolution Number with the 
defence values of the Personality card under attack. The Final Combat Resolution Number is only 
compared to the morale (MOR) defence value currently exposed on the card, or the panic (PAN) 
defence value(s) if the man is pinned [3.52]. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
6.5 Can you stop the Fire Combat Resolution when you are halfway (or any other point) through a target groupt 
(e.g. stop the resolution on the 4th man out of 6 men)? (This would be done to avoid weapon malfunction or to 
keep the deck from running out.) 
A. No. 
6.5 & 25.4 Does the attacker have the option of foregoing the resolution of an ordnace hit after seeing the Final 
Strength Number? 
A. No, but the attack can be cancelled after seeing the final "To Hit" number. This includes the play of any 
concealment. Once the "To Hit" card is drawn, the attack must be completed. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............. 
6.51 KIA: If the personality card has an exposed KIA value < the Final Combat Resolution Number, the 
Personality card is eliminated and removed from play (see also [18.1]). 
6.52 PINNED: If the Personality card has an exposed Morale value < the Final Combat Resolution 
Number, the Personality card is pinned unless eliminated by [6.51]. A pinned Personality card is flipped 
sideways (to represent the pinned status). While pinned, he defends with the panic (PAN) value(s). 
While pinned, CC (close combat value) and KIA values, change accordingly as shown in the red letters 
to the left side of the personality card. 
 
 
 
Fire Strength 
Fire Power

--- PAGE 12 ---
12 
 
 
6.53 PANIC: If the Personality card, while pinned, has an exposed Panic value < the Final Combat 
Resolution Number, the Personality card is removed from play due to Panic, but is considered KIA for 
Victory Point [16.4], Weapon Acquisition [18.1], and Campaign Game [41.4] purposes only if the 
Random Position Number (ignoring the colour) under column "0r" of the RNC which caused him to panic 
is < his Panic value. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............
.................................. 
6.53 also 33.1 The rule states a wound can occur when a man routs or when a KIA result occurs with an RNC that 
exactly matches the minimum KIA value. Take as an example PFC Fox, who has a Morale of 4 and a Panic of 5. 
Assume Fox is pinned, and an attack occurs with a Final Combat Resolution Number that equals 7. The card also 
has a "4" under the "7w" column and the card also has a "3" under the "0r" column, which under rule 6.53 means 
he is removed from play by Panic. What is the status of PFC Fox? 
A. PFC Fox is eliminated due to Panic, and is worth 2 victory points to his opponent. The wording of the rules take 
special care here, much like weapon malfunction. To summarize for a PC to be wounded: 
On his good order side, the Final Combat Resolution Number must equal his KIA value for there to be the 
possibility of a wound. 
On his Pinned, status, a Final Combat Resolution Number exactly equal to the KIA value (generally 9) always 
yields a possible wound. 
If the Final Combat Resolution is greater than or equal to the man's Panic value, but less than his KIA value there 
is also a possibility of a wound. However, the 0r column of the card must first be checked to determine if the man 
panics or routs. Only if the man routs is there the possibility of a wound. Panic is only equivalent to a KIA for 
specific purposes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............
.................................. 
6.531 ROUT: If the Random Position Number in the 0r column of the RNC which caused a man to Panic 
is > the man's Panic defence, the man is not killed but is removed from play due to Rout with applicable 
consequences to weapons and Victory Points. 
6.54 If all the exposed defence values of the Personality under attack are > the Final Combat Resolution 
Number there is no effect. 
6.6 A defending group can be attacked more than once per turn. It is possible for a Personality card to 
be pinned by fire from one attacking group, and then panic due to fire from another attacking group. The 
only restriction is that each group may attack only once per turn, and each group which attacks must do 
so with its own Fire card(s) which it has sufficient firepower to use.  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Fire example 
 
 
Changes in CCV 
and KIA values, 
while pinned

--- PAGE 13 ---
13 
[EX: The U.S. group depicted above is being attacked with a final modified Fire Strength of 5. The 
Action card facsimiles pictured are the RNC's drawn to resolve combat against the three defenders. Sgt. 
Allen is not affected (5 + -1 = 4 < 5). Pvt Myers is eliminated (5 + 4 = 9 > 8). Pvt Degi panics and is 
removed (5 + 0 = 5 > 3). However, Pvt Degi is not KIA because the Random Position Number under 
column "0r" of the third RNC is > 3 which means he routed safely out of the fire fight.] 
 
7. TERRAIN & MOVEMENT FIRE ATTACK MODIFIERS  
 
7.1 Every Terrain and Movement card contains a Fire Strength modifier beneath the name of the card. 
Some of them have two fire strenghth modifiers separated by a slash ( / ). The left modifier pertains to 
attacks made from that terrain. The right modifier pertains to attacks made against groups defending in 
that terrain  
 
 
(Exception: in the “Wall” terrain the left modifier pertains to attacks made against groups defending in 
that terrain. See “Wall” card below) 
7.2 The Fire Strength modifier of the last Terrain or Movement card placed on a defending group is used 
when resolving any fire attacks against that group. If the last Terrain or Movement card played on a 
defending group is a Movement card, then the last played Terrain or Movement card placed prior to it in 
that group is also used (as well as any modifiers for Smoke/Wire cards above it). 
 
A 
B 
C 
D 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [Examples of Terrain and Movement modifier combinations:  
 
A: Group’s cover is -1. Brush reduces fire strength by -1 (fire strength of 3 would be modified to 2) 
B: Group’s cover is 0. The -1 cover of Brush and the +1 of the movement card result to zero (fire 
strength of 3 would remain 3) 
C: Group’s cover is +2. By Placing a second movement card the group is assumed to have left the 
Brush terrain [5.2] and is exposed by the two movement cards in play by 2 (fire strength of 3 would be 
modified to 5) 
D: Group’s cover is -2. The -2 Woods cover is lost by one due to the sideways movement but the smoke 
covers in addition the group by -1 (fire strength of 3 would be modified to 1)

--- PAGE 14 ---
14 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
7.2 & 5.41 These rules show that placed terrain stays in place until new terrain replaces it. Thus, even though 
terrain may no logner be usable for TEM due to active movement cards, the terrain cards are left on the board, 
and not discarded until terrain is finally placed. Specifically, a terrain card remains on the table regardless of the 
number of movement cards in play on that group.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
7.2 & 4.4, 5.41 Are the cards drawn for resolution placed on the table, or are they immediately discarded? This is 
important for determining which and how many cards go into the deck if the resolution spans decks. 
A. First line of 4.4. They and their Fire card(s) are immediately discarded.  
Common practice is to leave all cards used in an attack on the table until the attack is resolved, or a draw is 
needed and the draw pile is empty. In the latter case, use some method to indicate the next PC to be attacked (or 
other pending action), discard all cards used in the attack to that point, re-shuffle, and then continue the attack. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
7.3 OPPONENT'S TERRAIN PLACEMENT: Any Terrain card other than Open Ground can be placed on 
an opposing group in lieu of a discard (note nationality restrictions on discards; [4.3]). In order to place a 
Terrain card on an opposing group, that group must be currently eligible to receive a Terrain card (i.e. it 
must have a Movement card in play which is not covered by a Terrain card and does not require 
placement of a second Movement card before it can leave its present terrain). The player who has just 
had the Terrain card played against him must then decide to either accept or reject the Terrain card 
placement (EXC: Stream or Minefield cards can never be rejected) before starting his own turn.  
7.31 If he accepts the Terrain card placement on his group by his opponent, play continues as normal 
and he may take an action with that group in his coming turn. 
7.32 REJECTING TERRAIN: However, if he rejects the Terrain card placement on his group by his 
opponent, he must immediately change the Advance/Retreat mode of the Movement card it was played 
on to a sideways move. This change back the range number of the group, but does not qualify it for any 
Flanking Fire bonus or Lateral Group Transfer that might otherwise apply. If the Terrain card played on 
his group by his opponent was already played on a sideways mode Movement card, the Movement card 
must be placed in the Discard pile (thereby forfeiting any Flanking Fire bonus or group identity change it 
may have earned). Whenever a Terrain card placement is reject in either manner, the Terrain card is 
placed in the Discard pile before the player takes his turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
7.32 Can a group with pinned men reject terrain? 
A. Yes. 
Can a player with multi-card discard capability, discard one terrain card on a group, have it rejected, and still 
discard another terrain card on the same group in the same turn? 
A. No. 
Even if the two were discarded simultaneously? 
A. No. 
If you have two Movement cards in play above a terrain card and subsequently reject enough terrain to remove 
both Movement cards, are you in the terrain card or Open Ground? 
A. The terrain card. 
7.32 If a weapon has been dropped in terrain, and you move from that terrain, but subsequently (due to rejecting 
terrain) you end up returning to that terrain, are the weapons still available for acquisition? 
A. No. Reference 18.4, the weapon is removed when you play the movement card. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
7.33 A player must reject the Terrain card played on his group by his opponent if the group it is placed 
on contains a Personality card which is not allowed in that terrain type. 
7.34 Whenever a Terrain card is played (and accepted) on a group, all Action cards beneath that Terrain 
card are placed in the Discard pile. 
7.4 Note that a group on a single Movement card on top of a Terrain card is still affected by that Terrain 
card and therefore is restricted by its requirements as well as protected by its benefits. 
 
8. TERRAIN EFFECTS  
8.1 OPEN GROUND: The back of every Action card depicts Open Ground. All 
groups starting a scenario without benefit of a placed Terrain card are considered in 
Open Ground until a Terrain card is played on them. A player wishing to move into 
Open Ground may do so by playing any card face down on top of an already placed 
Movement card. (EXC: An Open Ground card cannot be placed on top of the first 
Movement card played on top of any group requiring the play of two Movement 
cards to leave its present terrain; i.e. Marsh, Minefield, or [34.3]).  
8.11 A group occupying Open Ground receives no modifications to the strength of 
attacks made by it or against it due to being in that terrain. 
8.12 A man attempting to infiltrate from Open Ground terrain suffers a two column 
sift to the right when checking for Infiltration status [20.37].

--- PAGE 15 ---
15 
8.2 GULLY: A group occupying Gully terrain cannot attack or be attacked except by 
Sniper, mortar fire, a group on a Hill, Close Combat (hereafter referred to as CC), or 
at Relative Range 5.  
8.21 A defending group in a Gully may deduct two from the Fire Strength of any 
group which is attacking it. 
8.22 A group in a Gully is still considered in that Gully even after placing a 
Movement card on top of the Gully card. Only by placing yet another Movement 
card or a Terrain card on top of the first Movement card does the group leave the 
Gully and become eligible to receive and make Fire attacks other than those listed 
in [8.2]. Note that when leaving a Gully by placing two Movement cards, only the +1 
Fire Strength modifier of the second Movement card would apply to any attacks vs that group unless the 
attack was one of those listed in [8.2]. However, each Movement card played in an Advance or Retreat 
mode does affect the group's range number, and lateral movement in a Gully can result in Flanking Fire 
and/or Group Transfer possibilities.  
[EX: In the examples below assume fire is originating from a source other that those listed in [8.2].] 
 
A 
B 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A: No Fire allowed 
                        B: Fire Allowed; +1 for Movement 
 
8.23 An AFV entering a Gully must check for Bog [28.53]. 
 
8.3 HILL: A group occupying a Hill may fire on a group in a Gully at a Relative 
Range other than 5 with any weapon.  
8.31 A group occupying a Hill may use Elevated Fire [6.41] to add one to the Fire 
Strength of any attack they make against any target group not occupying another 
Hill or a Pillbox (including boxed fire vs. an AFV as well as the effect of a hit against 
non-armoured targets; [25.4]). 
8.32 A group occupying a Hill is entitled to a -1 modifier to the Fire Strength of any 
attack made against it which originates from any terrain other than another Hill. 
8.33 A defending AFV/IG on a Hill is considered Hull Down [28.9] to the firing group 
unless the firing group is also on a Hill. 
 
8.4 MARSH: Any defending group occupying Marsh terrain may deduct one from 
the Fire Strength of the group attacking it.  
8.41 A group attacking from Marsh must deduct one from its overall Fire Strength. A 
medium machine gun or mortar may not fire from Marsh. A light machine gun, 
bazooka, or panzerschreck must be fully crewed and non-moving and even then 
may use only its bracketed firepower or To Hit frequency when firing from a Marsh. 
A panzerfaust firing from a Marsh must deduct one from it’s To Hit frequency 
[25.33]. 
8.42 A new Terrain card cannot be placed on top of a Marsh card until two 
Movement cards (one per turn) have already been placed on top of it. The first 
Movement card placed on top of a Marsh card must be played in the sideways mode and does not 
qualify for any Flanking Fire bonus (although a Flank Movement card played sideways as the second 
Movement on top of a Marsh card does). The direction of movement (advance, retreat, lateral), and 
consequently the range, is determined solely by the manner in which the second Movement card is 
placed. Similarly, a man in Marsh terrain may not infiltrate [20.24] unless two Movement cards currently 
cover that Marsh card. 
8.43 Neither an AFV nor an Infantry Gun may ever enter Marsh terrain. 
8.44 A man in Marsh may not attempt to repair a malfunctioned weapon.

--- PAGE 16 ---
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[EX: A group in the terrain situation shown above is not yet eligible to receive a Terrain card [8.42]. If 
fired upon, the group would not modify the Fire Strength of the attack because the Terrain and 
Movement modifiers nullify each other ([-1] + [+1] = 0). The range number of the group does not change 
yet.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [EX: A group in the terrain situation shown above can now receive a Terrain card in future player turns. 
If fired upon, the group would modify the strength of the attack by +2 ([+1] + [+1] = +2). The range 
number of the group does not change because it moved sideways -- neither towards nor away from the 
enemy. Had the second Movement card been placed in an Advance or Retreat mode, the Range 
number in his Group Card would have been changed accordingly.] 
 
8.5 STREAM: Unlike most other Terrain cards, a Stream is usually placed on an 
opposing group. The group on which it is discarded must accept the Stream; it 
cannot move around the Stream or forfeit its Movement card as can be done with 
most other Terrain card rejections [7.32].  
8.51 A Stream does not modify an opponent's Fire Strength attack into that Stream. 
8.52 A medium machine gun, mortar, or Infantry Gun may not fire from a Stream, 
although an AFV's weapons may fire from a Stream with no detriment at all. Other 
crewed weapons may fire from a Stream only if they are fully crewed and non-
moving, and even then must use their bracketed Firepower or To Hit frequency. 
The Fire Strength of nay other group attacking from a Stream using non-ordnance 
weapons is reduced by one. A panzerfaust fired from a Stream must reduce its To Hit frequency by one. 
8.53 FORDING: A Stream can be left only by fording. Fording is the sole action of a group for that player 
turn and consists of playing a Movement card sideways. Fording is automatically successful only if it is 
accomplished by playing a “Ford” Movement card. If fording is attempted with any other Movement card, 
it is successful only by drawing a black RNC as it is played. If successful, the Ford Movement card is left 
in play in a sideways mode on top of the Stream card. The group is considered moving in the Stream 
and is eligible to play either another Movement card or a Terrain card in a subsequent turn. If the 
attempt is unsuccessful, the Movement card must be placed in the Discard tray instead, although it still 
counts as an action taken by that group for that turn. An Infantry Gun attempting to leave a Stream must 
play two sideways Movement cards (one per turn), but only the second Movement card must chance a 
RNC draw (or be a Ford Movement card), and is lost if it fails.  
 
8.531 A potential Flanking bonus could accrue if a Flank Movement card fords successfully. 
 
8.54 A man in a Stream may not attempt to repair a malfunctioned weapon.

--- PAGE 17 ---
17 
 
8.6 BUILDINGS: Any defending group on a Buildings card may 
subtract 3 (or 2 if so indicated on that Buildings card) from the 
Fire Strength of the group attacking it.  
8.61 A group in Buildings terrain may not fire a Mortar [26.2]. 
8.62 An AFV attempting to overrun a group in Buildings terrain 
is subject to adverse effects [29.4]. 
 
 
 
 
8.7 WOODS: Any defending group on a Woods card may subtract two from the Fire 
Strength of the group attacking it.  
EXC: Woods do not detract from the Fire Strength of a Mortar or artillery attack.  
8.71 An AFV must check for Bog when entering Woods. 
8.72 An AFV attempting to overrun a target in Woods terrain is subject to adverse 
effects [29.4]. 
8.73 AFV EXIT: An AFV must exit Woods terrain by playing a Movement card in the 
sideways mode; this requirement does not prevent a Flanking Fire advantage from 
resulting from the same move. 
8.74 A man attempting to infiltrate from Woods terrain shifts one column to the left on the RPC when 
checking Infiltration status [20.34]. 
 
8.8 BRUSH: Brush terrain is considered hedges in an urban scenario. Any 
defending group on a Brush card may subtract one from the Fire Strength of the 
group attacking it.  
8.81 An AFV attempting to overrun a group occupying Brush terrain is subject to 
adverse effects [29.4]. 
8.82 A man in Brush terrain attempting to infiltrate receives a two column shift to the 
left on the RPC when checking for Infiltration status [20.33]. 
 
 
 
8.9 WALLS: Any defending group on a Walls card may subtract two from the Fire 
Strength of the opposing group directly opposite it with the same group ID which is 
attacking it. EXC: A defending group on a Wall card may subtract only one from the 
Fire Strength of a mortar or artillery attack. A defending group on a Wall card 
attacked by any group other than the directly opposing group may subtract one from 
the Fire Strength of the group attacking it. Neither defensive modification is 
applicable if the defending group is encircled [17.6].  
8.91 A defending AFV on a Walls card is considered Hull Down to the firing group 
when determining if the AFV is hit, unless the firing group is entitled to Flanking Fire. 
8.92 An AFV attempting to overrun a group is Walls terrain is subject to adverse 
effects [29.4]. 
 
  
 
 
 
[EX: Assume all groups are at range number 0 in Walls Terrain. If Black Group A is attacked by Red 
Group A, it may deduct two from the Fire Strength of Red Group A. However, if Black Group A is 
attacked by Red Group B or C, it may deduct only one from the Fire Strength of the firing group. Now 
assume that Red Group C has managed to reach range number 6, thus putting it behind Black Groups 
A and B at range number 0 and plays a Sideways move creating an Encirclement of Black Group B (see 
[17.6]). All defensive advantages of the Walls of Black Group B are now lost as long as the encirclement 
continues.] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 
B 
  
A 
B 
C

--- PAGE 18 ---
18 
9. CONCEALMENT  
 
9.1 After seeing the modified strength of any 
attack [6.44] against him, the defending player 
has the final option of lessening the attacker's 
Fire Strength by playing any one Concealed 
card he currently has in his hand before any 
part of that attack is resolved. The card played 
lessens the Fire Strength of the opposing 
group by one, two, or three corresponding to 
the negative number printed on the card. 
Concealed cards are used to reduce the To Hit 
frequency of ordnance attacks [25.34] not the effect of any hits achieved. 
9.2 After resolving all combat for the attack against that group, the played Concealed card is discarded 
with the just spent RNC's and Fire cards. If he has an additional Concealed card remaining in his hand, 
the defender still has the option of using it that turn should his opponent conduct another attack against 
the same or a different defending group. 
9.3 The defender may not replace any Concealed card played during his opponent's turn until the end of 
his own turn [4.5], and therefore must start his turn with a depleted hand.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[EX: A group has attacked with a Fire Strength of 7 against the American group A illustrated above in 
Woods terrain. Rather than concede a 5 Fire Strength attack (7 - 2 [Woods] = 5), the American player 
used his Concealed -2 card to reduce the Fire Strength of the attack to 3. In resolving the attack, only 
Private Coates was pinned (3 + 0 [RNC] > 3 [Morale Value]). However, had the American player not 
played his Concealed card the results would have been far different. Nixon would also have been 
pinned (5 + -1 [RNC] > 4 [Morale Value]), and the previously pinned Sgt Allen would have been 
removed due to panic (5 + 2 [RNC] > 7 [Panic Value]).] 
9.4 One Concealed card can be played prior to the resolution of each infiltration attempt to aid one man 
in that infiltration attempt [20.3]. One Concealed card can also be played by each player to aid one man 
per CC before the initial CC resolution card draw of that CC. 
9.5 A Concealed card cannot be played on a defending Infantry Gun which has moved or fired during 
the scenario [34.5], a defending AFV [28.61], a man undergoing Minefield or Sniper Attack, or a Pillbox. 
 
10. PINNED MEN & RALLY  
 
10.1 PINNED MEN: When the sum of the final Fire Strength and the RNC is > the fired-on man's Morale 
value, but < his KIA value that Personality card is considered pinned and his card is flipped sideways. 
While in the sideways mode, he defends with his panic value and his KIA value is increased by +1. 
While pinned, his only game function is to serve as a target. He may perform no other voluntary action 
until rallied.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............. 
10.1, also32.12 CLARIFICATION: In order to be eligible to capture prisoners through the Rout method (32.12) 
the capturing group must contain at least one unpinned personality card. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
10.11 Pinned men may not use their firepower to add to their group's total firepower. 
10.12 A group containing any pinned man may not place a Movement card (even to remove Wire), 
although it may usually play a Terrain card over an already placed Movement card. However, individual 
men within a group containing a pinned man may play Movement cards directly into the Discard tray for 
1ST draw 
2ND draw 
3RD draw

--- PAGE 19 ---
19 
movement of single Personnel cards in the form of Individual Transfer [17.8], infiltration attempts, or CC 
entry. 
10.13 Pinned men have no Morale value and can only be affected by Fire attacks if the final result is > 
their Panic or KIA values resulting in their removal from play. 
10.14 The presence of a pinned man in a defending group increases the chance of successful infiltration 
of that group by opponents attempting to infiltrate [20.38]. 
 
10.2 RALLY:  Pinned men regain their normal status only if the owner plays a 
Rally card on their group [4.23] as his sole action for that group in that player turn. 
The player may play only one Rally card per group per game turn, and that card 
is immediately placed in the Discard pile.  
……………………………………………………………………………………………… 
10.2 Can you play a Rally card on a group with no pinned men in order to get it out of 
your hand? 
A. No. 
……………………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
10.21 Up to the number of men indicated on the Rally card may be returned to normal status. The player 
has the choice of which of his Personality cards will remain pinned if his Rally card is insufficient to 
return all the pinned men in a group to normal. If his played Rally card is sufficient to rally all the men in 
that group, they must all be rallied; a player cannot choose to use less Rally capacity than he has played 
so as to intentionally leave a man pinned. 
10.22 Any surplus capacity of a Rally card is lost; it may not be used to rally pinned men of a different 
group, nor saved for later use. See [28.42] for play of Rally cards as partial credit for reviving a stunned 
or pinned AFV. 
10.23 RALLY ALL: There is one exception to the above rules. The "Rally All" card can be used to rally 
all pinned men of two adjacent groups at the same range provided either group has a non-pinned SL, 
ASL, or Commissar (not an AFV or IG commander), or all the pinned men of two non-adjacent groups 
provided each group has a non-pinned leader. Whenever a Rally All card is used to rally men in more 
than one group it counts as an action taken by each group. Failing this, the "Rally All" card can be used 
to rally all of the pinned men (including an AFV or IG) of one group  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
10.23 Can you rally an AFV and a same range, adjacent group that has an unpinned leader with a "RALLY ALL" 
card? 
A. Yes, but only if the AFV is an OT-AFV. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
10.3 VOLUNTARY PANIC:  
A player may choose to remove any of his pinned men (except a Commissar) anytime during his own 
player turn without counting as an Action taken. Men voluntarily lost in this manner count in determining 
applicable scenario Victory Conditions and must undergo the Panic/Rout determination procedure [6.53] 
by drawing a RNC. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
10.3 Can you voluntarily rout out an unpinned man? 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
10.3 & 50.41 Can a surrendered Italian group or parts thereof voluntarily panic prior to being captured? 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
10.4 HERO:  
A Hero card can be played anytime (even during the opponent's turn or 
immediately upon drawing a Hero card from the Draw pile thus entitling the 
player to yet another draw) to rally one pinned man without counting as an Action. 
If played during the opponent's turn, the card cannot be replaced until the end of 
the owner's player turn [9.3]. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………… 
10.4 The SL is pinned at the end of a player's turn. On his hand refill he draws a hero, 
which he uses on the SL. Can he now draw a full hand? 
A. Yes, rule 10.4. 
10.4 During a Fire atack, can an infiltrator who gets a pinned result play a hero card 
immediately and keep his infiltration? 
A. Yes.  
10.4 Can you hero an unpinned man upon drawing a hero just to get another draw?A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............

--- PAGE 20 ---
20 
10.41 A Hero card cannot be played on an AFV or Infantry Gun except as a partial credit towards 
rallying a pinned or stunned AFV (EXC: [28.421]). 
10.42 The Hero card cannot be played on an already pinned man that has just been removed by Panic. 
It must be played before the attack on the pinned man is actually resolved. 
10.43 A Hero card could be played on a man who was pinned while attempting to infiltrate or enter CC 
[20.21], thus enabling him to try again in the same turn. The Hero card can be used to both rally a man 
and to simultaneously bestow special heroic powers on him for that turn ([10.44][10.45], [28.81], [33.9]). 
 
10.44 VS AFV OVERRUN:  
Regardless of whether or not it is used to rally a pinned man, a Hero card played prior to an opponent's 
Overrun attack resolution will reduce the RNC for that particular Overrun resolution vs that one man by 
one. Note that reducing a red RNC requires that you actually increase the number by one to decrease 
its value; i.e. change a red 3 (-3) to a red 4 (-4). 
 
10.45 FIREPOWER:  
A Hero card can be used to double the firepower of any one man for one player turn. If the man is 
already entitled to double firepower, triple it instead. The firepower factor of a machinegunner which is 
doubled (or tripled) is his bracketed firepower -- even if the gun is fully crewed. Mortars, AFV's, and IG's 
are not eligible. A man with a Light Anti-Tank Weapon may improve his To Hit frequency by one whether 
fully crewed or not -- but only at those ranges which the weapon could normally fire at. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
10.45 Can you hero an unpinned man when the group is not firing, just to get it out of your hand? 
A. No. 
10.45 Can a player use a Hero card to double a PC's firepower, even if the extra firepower is not needed in order 
to play the resultant fire card? 
A. Yes, especially if playing a campaign game where elan points are being accumulated. However, a player cannot 
play the Hero card to no effect. 
10.45 Can you play two Hero cards on the same man simultaneously to triple his firepower if he wasn't already 
entitled to double firepower? 
A. No. 
10.45 & 17.4 Which values for crewed LMGs are used for non-Hero caused doubled firepower?  
A. The fully crewed value is used for flanking bonuses. The bracketed value is doubled only for Heroes using 
crewed weapons. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
11. CREW SERVED WEAPONS  
11.1 If a Personality card lists two sets of firepower values or To Hit numbers, one of which 
is in brackets, he is considered to be operating a crew-served weapon which can function 
either with a one or two man crew. To use the non-bracketed firepower of To Hit numbers, 
a second unpinned man in the same group must be assigned to the weapon as an 
assistant. Otherwise, only the bracketed firepower value (or To Hit Numbers) are used.  
11.11 The man chosen as the assistant must be so designated by placing the two cards next to each 
other within their group and placing a "crew" counter so that it overlaps both cards. A SL, ASL, or 
Commissar may be designated crewmen and still maintain their special function. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
11.11 Can a PC whose primary weapon is a crew-served weapon act as a crewman for another crew-served 
weapon (e.g. a mortar PC act as a crew for a MMG)? 
A. No. An exception to this would be a man whose primary weapon was a crew served weapon, but is unarmed, 
and that man transferred into a group with another crew served weapon. 
11.11 & 17.8 & 18.2 When can a group rearrange their order? Can this be done as the sole action for a group?  
A. Yes. 
How about following individual transfer (17.8)? 
A. No.  
After crewing/uncrewing a weapon (11.11)?  
A. Yes, see 11.12.  
A group may also rearrange its order after a successful weapon acquisition (18.2).  
Read full text of rule 3.3 and 4.25 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
11.12 The player may start the game with an assistant already designated as crew, or he may designate 
one during his turn as the sole action of that group for that turn [4.25]. 
11.13 Once a man is designated as crew, he remains crew until he (or the weapon; [18.1]) is eliminated, 
attempts to infiltrate, or is designated as non-crew during his turn as the sole action of that group for that 
turn.

--- PAGE 21 ---
21 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
11.13 & 17.8 Can the holder of a crew-served weapon begin an individual transfer if the weapon is currently 
crewed? Can the crewman? 
A. No. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
11.2 A man assigned as an assistant crewman forfeits his own firepower as long as he remains in that 
capacity, although he does keep possession of his own weapon for possible subsequent use ([18.21] 
does not apply). 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
11.2 The PC who is carrying a radio as a SW, is also a crewman. Can the radio still be used?  
A. No. 
11.2 & 14.4 In a two-man group consisting of a crewed weapon whose principal operator is pinned, can the 
assistant crewman perform a sniper check? 
A. Yes. He is still armed even though he has no firepower. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
11.3 A pinned man cannot be assigned to, nor relieved from, crew duties. 
11.4 The assistant crewman cannot fire the weapon alone. A crew-served weapon cannot be fired as 
long as the principal crewman who possesses the weapon is pinned. 
 
12. MOVING FIRE 
 
12.1 The Fire Strength of any Fire card played by a currently moving group is halved prior to any other 
modification (fractions rounded down). EXC: Fire cards used solely in conjunction with ordnance, or a 
flamethrower in which that flamethrower is providing all the necessary firepower, is not halved.  
12.11 Halve the firepower of a moving man with a bolt-action rifle; each fraction is rounded down (1 / 2 = 
1/2 which yields 0). 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
12.11 & 17.4 Does the simultaneous halving of firepower for Moving Fire and doubled firepower for Flanking 
Fire leave a Bolt Action Rifle with its normal firepower? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
12.12 A medium machine gun, mortar, Light Anti-Tank Weapon, or Infantry Gun may never be fired 
while moving. 
12.13 A moving man with a light machine gun must use the bracketed firepower value even if the 
weapon is fully crewed. If the weapon is not fully crewed, it may not be fired while moving. Any 
designated crewman still forfeits his own inherent firepower as long as he remains a designated 
crewman. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[EX: The group depicted above is a Relative Range 3 and moving. The German player wants to use his 
"Fire 4" card to attack. In this example, he cannot attack because he lacks the necessary eight firepower 
factors in his group to use this Fire card (Griess and his designated crewman have 4, Hessel 1, Wolff 1, 
and Bernhoff 1 for a total of 7). If, however, the enemy group should close the Relative Range to 4, 
Hessel's Machine Pistol will be worth 3 firepower factors; thus giving the group nine firepower factors, 
more than enough to use their "Fire 4" card even though the Fire Strength of the "Fire 4" card will be 
reduced to 2 due to the moving status of the group                                            .  
Now assume the group depicted above is retreating to Relative Range 2. The group now has only three 
firepower factors to use to play a Fire card and all of those come from Griess's fully crewed LMG.

--- PAGE 22 ---
22 
Hessel has no firepower at range 2, and Wolff and Bernhoff likewise have no FP (because each of their 
1/2 firepower factors for moving fire at Range 2 is rounded off to 0 before totalling the firepower of the 
group).] 
 
13. ARTIFICIAL TERRAIN CARDS  
 
13.1 There are two types if Artificial Terrain cards: Smoke and Wire. These are not Terrain cards. 
Playing an Artificial Terrain card does not change the terrain that a group occupies; rather, it modifies 
the terrain last occupied. Therefore, unlike a Terrain card, it need not be placed on a Movement card; it 
can be played directly on top of a Terrain card. An Artificial Terrain card placed on a group by an 
opposing player cannot be rejected [7.32]. 
 13.2 SMOKE: A player may play a Smoke card only on one of his groups 
containing an unpinned SL, ASL, or AFV as his sole action for that group during 
that player turn [4.25]. Smoke cannot be placed in Marsh terrain, and cannot be 
placed during a player turn in which a Breeze RNC/RPC has been drawn. 
……………………………………………………………………………………………… 
13.2 Can ANY AFV place smoke on itself? Or, is an anti-armor Effect number of 4 
requried? 
A. To place smoke on self, AFV must be US, British, or German. To place smoke on other 
group (friendly or enemy), AFV must be US, British, or German AND have boxed FS of 4 
or better. 
……………………………………………………………………………………………… 
13.21 A defending group in Smoke receives a -1 modification to the Fire Strength of the group which is 
attacking it in addition to the terrain effects of the last Terrain card played. 
13.22 An attacking group in Smoke receives a -1 modification to the Fire Strength of any attack it makes. 
13.23 Smoke does not prevent a Terrain card from being played on a previously placed Movement card, 
it merely adds to the defensive value of the last played Terrain card beneath it in that group. 
13.24 Smoke cards remain in effect until one of the following events occur, at which point they are 
immediately placed in the Discard pile.    
13.241A Terrain card is played above any Smoke card(s) on that group, even if subsequently rejected. 
13.242 Two Movement cards are played in any mode and remain on top of the Smoke card at the end of 
that player turn. (A second Movement card placed only momentarily so as to remove a Wire card would 
not remove Smoke, nor would any Movement card played directly into the Discard tray for movement by 
individuals within the group.) 
13.243 BREEZE: An effective Breeze card instantly removes all Smoke cards currently in play. A 
Breeze card is effective only if drawn during any RNC/RPC check. A Breeze card is noted by the word 
"Breeze" on the left side of a Rally card. Any attack being resolved when a Breeze card is drawn if 
affected by that smoke, but all subsequent attacks are not (including any using the same Fire card(s) in 
the current attack). 
13.25 The effect of Smoke cards is cumulative. Two or more Smoke cards could be added to the 
defensive value of the last played Terrain card beneath them, or subtracted from the Fire Strength of 
any group attacking from them. 
  
A 
B 
C 
D

--- PAGE 23 ---
23 
A: -1 (Brush) -1(Smoke) +1(Movement) / Total modifier=-1 
B: +1(Movement) -1(Smoke) +1(Movement) / Total modifier=+1 
C: -1(Smoke) +1(Movement) +1(Movement) / Total modifier= +2 (, the Smoke card is removed as soon 
as the second Movement card is played) 
D: -1(Brush) -1(Smoke) -1(Smoke) +1(Movement) / Total modifier= -2 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
13.26 Smoke has no effect in night scenarios and should be treated as a Cower card instead. 
13.27 A man attempting to infiltrate from and/or into a Smoke card must make a two column shift to the 
left on the RPC for each Smoke card when checking for Infiltration. 
13.28 An AFV making an Overrun attack against a group in Smoke is subject to adverse effects [29.4]. 
13.29 See [25.7]-[25.8] for effect of smoke on ordnance and placement of smoke by an AFV. 
 
13.3 WIRE: A Wire card can be placed on an opposing group only in lieu of a 
discard (see [4.3]). A Wire card cannot be played on a group in Marsh or Pillbox 
terrain. Wire can be placed on Stream terrain only after the group has 
successfully forded that Stream (see [13.5]).  
[NOTE: Players may find it difficult to picture Wire being placed on a non-moving 
group. It may help the credibility of the situation if you look upon the Wire card as 
an abstracted form of a Fate card representing any development which could 
discomfort the enemy in his current position. If perceiving the Wire card as 
random shelling which damages the defender's terrain and causes him to shift 
slightly within his position thus disturbing his aim enhances your perception of the 
card, by all means think of it in those terms.]  
13.31 Any defending group on a Wire card must add one to the Fire Strength of the group attacking it, in 
addition to any applicable terrain/movement modifiers. 
13.32 Any attacking group on a Wire card must deduct one from its own Fire Strength. Crew-served 
weapons can fire only with their bracketed values and only if fully crewed and non-moving. Ordnance 
weapons [25.0] on a Wire card must deduct one from their To Hit frequency. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
13.32 Does a hit by ordnance attacking from Wire also subtract one from its Hit strength? 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
13.33 REMOVAL: A Wire card is removed and placed in the Discard Pile as soon as a Movement card 
is played. However, that Movement card is also removed and does not serve to ford, flank, change 
Relative Range or group identity, or add to any attacker's Fire Strength against that group. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
13.33 & 18.4 Does the playing of a movement card to remove wire cause weapon counters to be lost? Does the 
play of ARTIFICIAL Terrain remove weapons counters? 
A. Yes. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
13.34 Neither Terrain nor Movement cards can be placed on top of a Wire card by either player; the 
Wire card must first be removed by play of a temporary Movement card. Note that a group on Wire may 
not play a Movement card to remove the Wire as long as that group contains a pinned man. 
13.35 VS AFV: If a Wire card is discarded on an AFV (whether moving or not), the AFV must 
immediately check for Bog [28.53]. Regardless of the outcome, the Wire card is removed to the Discard 
pile and therefore does not affect fire from an AFV. 
13.36 CLOSE COMBAT: A man in Wire man not attempt to infiltrate. However, the existence of Wire on 
a group does not protect it from being infiltrated. An infiltrator who subsequently has Wire placed on his 
group may still engage in CC. 
 
13.4 As it takes two Movement cards to move out of Marsh, neither Wire nor Smoke can be played over 
Marsh terrain until the group has first played two Movement cards on the Marsh. 
13.5 Open Ground may be placed beneath a Wire or Smoke card and above a Movement card by the 
moving player so as to eliminate his group's Moving status, yet leave the Wire and/or Smoke in play. 
13.6 The effects of Wire and Smoke are cumulative. It would require two Movement cards (played on 
different turns) to remove two Wire cards from the same group

--- PAGE 24 ---
24 
 
A 
B 
C 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[EX: The Wire placement in Example A is not allowed [13.3]. In example B, the group on Wire should 
probably play Open Ground beneath the Wire card if it doesn't have a Movement card to cancel the 
Wire card. In example C, placing Open Ground beneath the Wire would not change the total Terrain 
Effect Modifier (which would remain at +2), but it would allow the group to fire without being penalized 
for Moving Fire.] 
 
14. SNIPERS 
14.1 Unless a Scenario Special Rule designates Sniper cards as being playable 
only by a particular side in that scenario, any player with a Sniper card may play it 
provided he does so as a discard. Thus, an American or Russian player make 
take no other action during a turn in which they make a Sniper attack; a German 
player may make no other discards during a turn in which he makes a Sniper 
attack. 
14.2 Playing a Sniper card allows the player to attack one opposing card in a 
group of his choice regardless of the terrain occupied by that group. If the target 
group is a multu-Personnel card group, the card to be attacked in that group is 
determined by a RPC draw (see [14.6]). A Sniper may attack an AFV [28.431] 
only if it is CE. 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
14.2 & 17.8 If a group that a man is transfering to is fired on by a Sniper, is he also a legitimate target for the 
Sniper? If so, what position is the transferring man considered to occupy?  
A. Yes. The first position. 
14.2 May a sniper attack a pinned British Bren Carrier or Wasp? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.3 RESOLUTION: A Sniper attack is resolved by drawing a RNC and comparing the number to the 
KIA & PIN values printed on the Sniper card. There is no significance to the color of the RNC drawn, nor 
are there any modifications. A "KIA" result removes the defender's Personality card from the game. A 
"Pinned" result flips his card to the Pinned side. If the defender is already pinned, the Personality Panics 
and must check for Rout [6.531]. Any other result is a Miss and has no effect. The Sniper card is placed 
in the Discard pile after resolution.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.3 & 33.1 Can a man be wounded as a result of a sniper attack? If yes, would column "7w" of the RNC used to 
resolve the Sniper Attack be checked -anytime- a man is removed due to the attack? 
A. Yes. No, a P2-3/K4-6 sniper that affected a pinned man would check for a wound on a RNC draw of 2-3 if the 
man routed or on an RNC of 4. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.31 VS AFV: A Sniper which scores a Pinned result on an AFV, forces that AFV to Button Up [28.43] 
(or get pinned in the case of an Open Topped AFV). A Sniper which scores a KIA result on an AFV not 
only forces that AFV to button up (or get pinned), but also results to a Commander Killed status on the 
AFV [28.431]. 
14.32 VS IG: A Sniper which scores a Pinned result vs. an Infantry Gun flips that card sideways to its 
Pinned status; if already pinned the card is removed. A KIA result on an Infantry Gun by a Sniper flips 
the card sideways to its Pinned status, and results to a Commander Killed status on the Infantry Gun.   
A Sniper cannot attack a Pinned or Buttoned Up AFV. 
 
14.4 SNIPER CHECK: The defending player, as the first and sole action of the 
group fired on by the Sniper in the immediately following player turn, may attempt 
to locate and remove the Sniper with a Sniper Check provided it has an armed 
(not secondary weapons), unpinned man in that group. (A CE AFV or unpinned

--- PAGE 25 ---
25 
Infantry Gun will also suffice). A Sniper Check is attempted by drawing a RNC, and is successful only if 
that RNC is both black and > the RNC (ignoring color) drawn by the Sniper when resolving his attack. If 
the Sniper check is successful, all Sniper cards henceforth held by the opponent are treated as Cower 
cards. This is the only way a Sniper can be attacked and does not require the use of a Fire card, but 
does count as an Action taken by that group. Elimination of a Sniper is never considered in determining 
Victory Points or Scenario Victory Conditions. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............  
14.4 & 11.2 In a two-man group consisting of a crewed weapon whose principal operator is pinned, can the 
assistant crewman perform a sniper check? 
A. Yes. He is still armed even though he has no firepower. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.4 & 48.42 If a group is attacked by more than one Sniper, which RNC must it beat in a Sniper Check? 
A. The lowest absolute value. Example: Against multiple sniper results of a black 2 and a red 4, the affected group 
would perform a Sniper Check using a value of 2. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.41 In DYO scenarios [43.0], players have the option to purchase a second Sniper which merely 
allows them to continue playing Sniper cards until they have lost two Sniper checks. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.41 The last sentence of 48.4 states "This dual Sniper attack capability can also be used in DYO scenarios where 
additional snipers are purchased." This seems to be in contradiction to 14.41. Which is correct? 
A. Both, but treat 48.4 as "in force" for/random reinforcement snipers. A DYO purchased "Double Sniper" is just 
Sniper insurance -- it takes two successful Sniper checks to eliminate Sniper capability. 
A Sniper Random Reinforcement does the following: 
1. Gives ordinary Sniper capability if player does not currently have it (lost it, or not have at start) 
2. Serves as a Dual Sniper (makes two attacks per Sniper card played) for a player who already has a Sniper. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.5 If, in the course of a multi-card discard, two or more Sniper and/or Minefield attacks are played on 
the same group resulting in the elimination of the only target in that group, the discarding player may 
alternate his selection of a target group for any discards yet to be resolved. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
14.5 & 4.3 During a multi-card discard, can the player observe the results of one discard before deciding where 
and/or if to discard another? 
A. No. Rule 7.3 and 7.32 specifically state that discards are resolved prior to the next turn, not prior to the next 
discard 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
Discard Capability, 14.5, 4.32, 4.33, and 44.1 Can nationalities with multi-card discard capability discard two or 
more wires on a single group in a single turn? 
A. Yes. 
Examples: 
[NOTE: The examples assume that the indicated discards are valid for the scenario and situation (i.e. the 
discarding side has sniper capability).] 
Non-moving Group: May discard any number of SNIPERS and/or any number of WIRE cards. 
Moving Group: May discard one terrain card and/or any number of snipers and/or any number of WIRE cards. 
Rejecting the terrain does NOT reject the WIRE. If the terrain is accepted and WIRE is not allowed in that type of 
terrain (e.g. MARSH) then the WIRE is discarded. 
Two Moving Groups Exchanging Group Letters: Same as a moving group with two additions. If either group 
rejects a terrain discard, the position exchange is cancelled. If terrain is discarded on one group and accepted, the 
moving player MUST complete the position exchange by placing the other group in terrain (including open ground) 
on his next turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
14.6 RPC DRAW: A Random Position Card (hereafter referred to as RPC) is the drawing of any Action 
card from the deck to randomly determine which position within a group will receive a particular action. 
Near the bottom of every Action card is a line of ten purple-red numbers ranging from "1" on the left to 
"0r" (10Rout) on the right. Each purple-red number represents the number of men in a group. If, for 
example, the target group of a Sniper attack contains six men, the number beneath the purple-red "6" is 
consulted to determine the position within the six man group which is the target of the Sniper attack. 
RPC's are also drawn to resolve Infiltration attempts, CC pairings, Bog, Rout, and other occurrences 
which are explained elsewhere. 
 
15. COMMAND CONTROL  
15.1Each player usually starts the game with one Squad Leader (indicated on his Personality card by 
the designation SL after his name), and one Assistant Squad Leader (ASL).

--- PAGE 26 ---
26 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
15.1 & 48.3 When reinforcements include an ASL, does he function as an auxiliary ASL, in case of the loss of the 
original SL or ASL? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
15.2 Should a player's SL be pinned at the end of his turn, or have just been removed by a KIA or 
PANIC result during that game turn, that player may only draw enough cards to restore the number of 
cards in his hand [4.5] to one less than the number he is usually allotted. 
15.3 If the SL is removed, the squad's hand capacity would return to normal for subsequent turns, but 
rule 15.2 would then apply to the ASL for all future turns. The ASL (or Commissar) is now considered to 
be the SL. There is no penalty for the ASL being pinned or removed while the SL is still in play. 
15.4 Should both the SL and the ASL be removed, the reduced card hand becomes a liability for the 
duration of the scenario. 
 
15.5 COMMISSAR: Occasionally the Russian player's forces will include a man 
with a rank of Commissar instead of either a SL or ASL. The Commissar is the 
equal of the SL or ASL (whichever role he fills) in all the respects listed above. In 
addition, special rules pertain to play with a Commissar.  
15.51 The Commissar must start play in the largest group of his side. 
15.52 All men in the same group with an unpinned Commissar have their 
MORALE and PANIC values increased by one. 
15.53 EXECUTION: Any group containing both an unpinned Commissar and a 
pinned man at the end of the Russian player's turn must draw a RPC to determine 
if the Commissar executes his pinned comrade for cowardice. If the RPC drawn 
indicates a position occupied by a pinned man, that man is eliminated. This process does not constitute 
an action taken by the group. 
15.54 A Commissar can never be voluntarily eliminated [10.3] 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
15.52 Does the increase to Morale and Panic values apply to the Commisar himself? 
A. No; he is not with an unpinned Commisar. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
15.6 UNBALANCED POSITION: Should a player be reduced to one group, the opposing player at the 
end of his own turn may draw one additional card beyond that which he would otherwise be entitled to 
during each turn in which this condition persists. 
 
16. THE ACTION DECK & VICTORY DETERMINATION  
 
16.1 ACTION DECK: A scenario often lists alterations to the Action deck. Players should remove the 
specified cards during the course of play by setting them aside as they are placed in the Discard pile. 
Such cards are still used to resolve RNC and RPC draws when first drawn. If drawn by a player for 
inclusion in his hand, the card is treated as a Cowering card until discarded. Such cards must be 
removed from the Action deck as they are discarded from the player's hand or drawn to resolve 
RNC/RPC draws. A player may not discard an outlawed card from his hand face down in an attempt to 
keep it in play. However, such a card could be played face down as an Open Ground card and thereby 
avoid being removed.  
[EX: Scenario A calls for the removal of five of the eight Buildings cards. The first five Buildings cards 
discarded directly from a player's hand or used as a RNC/RPC are removed from the game. Therefore, 
a Buildings card could never be placed (or discarded) during Prepare for Play Initial Terrain Placement 
[3.6]. However, the instant the fifth Buildings card is removed from play, the three remaining Buildings 
cards become valid Terrain cards. In this instance, players may want to hold a Buildings card in their 
hand in anticipation of its eventual value as a Terrain card.] 
16.2 DECK: When the Draw pile is empty, the Discard pile is shuffled and becomes the new Draw pile. 
This process is referred to as “one Deck” for Time Limit purposes. Flip or change the Time chit on the 
Discard tray accordingly.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.2 As it is important to note a breeze card pulled during a player's turn, should all cards played during a 
player's turn remain on the table and not returned to the deck during re-shuffling at the deck's end (when the 
player's turn is not complete) and only placed in the discard tray at the end of the player's turn? (This is also 
important in attacker vs defender scenarios when the defender wants to run out the deck AND this is especially 
important if a wire card or stream card were pulled in the attack -- one player may especially want them NOT 
shuffled into the deck). 
A. No. When the deck runs out, all cards that will be placed in the discard tray are shuffled into the deck 
immediately. The attack is then resolved from that point and the game continued. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............

--- PAGE 27 ---
27 
16.21 If a card in the Draw pile is inadvertently exposed to view to either player, it should be reshuffled 
back into the Draw pile (or, at the other player's option, the Discard pile). Players are never allowed to 
actually count the number of cards remaining in the Draw Pile. 
16.22 The general rule of card players that "a card laid is a card played" holds true here also unless the 
play of that card is illegal. However, ignorance of the rules of play is not an acceptable excuse for 
altering the course of play once a different player has begun his turn. Therefore, any inadvertent 
violation if the rules (such as the incorrect or unapplied application of a modifier) are accepted as a valid 
play once another player begins his turn. 
16.3 TIME LIMITS:  Most scenarios have a time limit defined in terms of playing to the bottom of the 
Draw pile a particular number of times. Whenever the Draw pile has been emptied that number of times, 
the game ends and victory is determined by the criteria established in the scenario. However, if the 
Draw pile is emptied in the process of resolving an attack of any kind, the Discard pile is reshuffled so 
that any remaining portion of the attack in question can be resolved fully. The game then ends at that 
point. It may not continue further even if players could otherwise play from the cards in their hand 
without drawing to replenish those hands.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.3 At the end of the last deck, a player decides to enter close combat. 16.3 states that if the last deck of the game 
runs out in the resolution of an attack, it is re-shuffled and the attack completed. What is the definition of the 
"attack" in close combat for these purposes? 
A. Specifically for the last deck, if the deck runs out during morale checks, the game is over. The "attack" 
commences when making the RPC check, therefore, from that point forward, should the deck run out, re-shuffle 
and complete the attack. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.31 REAL TIME: To simulate the snap decisions required in combat at this level and to keep the game 
from being bogged down by a slow, calculating opponent, players are urged to play within the 
constraints of one minute turns. To facilitate this rule, a chess clock should be set at one minute after 
each player ends his turn by drawing all necessary cards to fill his hand. His opponent then has a total 
of one minute in which to declare all his actions and/or discards he will make in his turn. He may resolve 
one or more actions before declaring the remainder of his turn if he wishes, but once his minute has 
expired he may not declare any further actions or discards. Resolution of declared actions and discards 
may take place after time has elapsed, This rule should be implemented only by experienced players 
and with their mutual consent. For those lacking a chess clock, inexpensive sand timers are available in 
most Department stores or by mail from Avalon Hill in one, two, and three minute varieties. 
16.4 VICTORY POINTS: Should a scenario end due to time limit and the Victory Conditions for that 
scenario do not include the condition that one player wins by denying the opponent's Victory Conditions, 
the winner is decided by the side having the most Victory Points. At the end of the scenario, unless 
specified otherwise, each player multiplies the number of unpinned, non-moving men (or unpinned 
AFV/Infantry Guns, or mobile AFV's) in each group by the present range number of its group (regardless 
of the terrain occupied). The result is the number of Victory Points awarded for aggressive action. Note 
that occupation of a negative range number would yield negative Victory Points. Add to this total two 
Victory Points for every opposing man removed due to KIA or Commander (or Crew) Killed results, six 
Victory Points for every opposing Infantry Gun, and ten Victory Points for every opposing AFV 
eliminated. In addition, each eliminated AFV is worth an additional number of Victory Points equal to its 
basic anti-armor attack strength. One Victory Point is awarded for each opposing wounded man or Rout 
removal. Five Victory Points are awarded for each prisoner [32.0] taken. A card does not have to 
possess functioning armament to be worth Victory Points or satisfy most victory conditions. As an aid in 
calculating Victory Points, all removed Personnel cards should be given to the opponent for accounting 
purposes. KIA's should be stacked face up, and Rout removals should be stacked face down. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.4 So you really mean that no VP's are awarded for moving men at the end of a scenario, even if they are at 
range number 5? 
A. Yes. That is the risk you take when waiting for the relative artificial safety of the end of the deck to move. The 
rule was deliberately created to limit such unrealistic end-of-game tactics. 
16.4 Units which are at a negative Range number and in Terrain applicable to the scenario being played earn 
negative points (i.e. reduce the score of the owning player). For example, a group of three men in Scenario B, 
occupying Buildings terrain at Range number -1 would yield -3 Victory Points. The same group in scenario B 
occupying Brush terrain would yield 0 Victory Points. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.41 Pinned men, and immobilized, bogged, or pinned AFV's are not eligible for Victory Points for 
either side. 
16.42 VICTORY CONDITION FULFILMENT: Some scenarios require as part of their Victory Conditions 
that a certain number of unpinned men must reach a certain range number or Relative Range position 
and occupy terrain "which will reduce the Fire Strength of an attack against them". Under most 
circumstances any terrain other than Open Ground, Minefield, or Stream would suffice to fill this 
requirement. However, the existence of a Wire card on top of a Terrain card reduces the defensive 
modification due to terrain which that terrain would normally be entitled to and may serve to void it as

--- PAGE 28 ---
28 
fulfilment of the Victory Conditions. On the other hand, entrenchments can be used to improve Open 
Ground so as to fulfil Victory Conditions. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.42 When a scenario has a Victory Condition that requires you to have some number of unpinned Personality 
cards in one or more non-infiltrated groups with a ''4'' range number..." can you also win if some are at RC 5 or 
greater?  
A. No. All personality cards must be at the same range number, as specified in the scenario victory conditions. The 
scenario victory conditions should be considered implicit. 
Even in the case of Scenario U, Personality cards fulfilling Victory conditions must be at the same range numbert? 
A. In Scenario U, units may occupy different range number and claim victory. 
16.42 Would a Wire card on top of a Wall card negate that Group for Victory Conditions fulfillment if an opposing 
group exists which is not directly opposite it? 
A. No. Even if no opposing group was directly opposite it to be affected by the TEM, the Wall card is not reduced 
to total ineffectiveness and, therefore, can be used to fulfill Victory Conditions. However, a Wall card cannot be 
used to fulfill Victory Conditions if there are two Wire cards on it. Similarly, an occupied Hill card with its +1 
modifier cannot be used to negate the opponent's TEM for purposes of fulfilling Victory Conditions. 
16.42 & 32.12  By capturing a man and bringing him into a group, and then stopping in suitable terrain, does the 
attacker satisfy the Relative Range 5 requirement of the Victory Conditions, if, in so doing, it eliminates the only 
Relative Range 5 enemy group? 
A. Yes. Note, this rule is in effect to prevent a player from routing men to avoid victory by the opponent. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.421 Smoke, which is not permanent, cannot be used to fulfil Victory Conditions. 
16.422 A unit in the act of movement cannot fulfil Victory Conditions. 
16.423 A Gully suffices as "terrain which will reduce the Fire Strength of an attack" even if no enemy 
group is capable of fire into that Gully. 
[EX: In Scenario A, a group of four unpinned men is at range number 4 in Brush terrain, but do not fulfil 
the Victory Conditions because they also are penalized by a Wire card which reduces the overall terrain 
modifier of the Brush card to 0. They must remove the Wire card to satisfy their Victory Conditions. Note 
that had their Terrain card been a Woods, Buildings, or Gully card they would have fulfilled their Victory 
Conditions anyway because one Wire card is not enough to reduce the terrain modifiers of those terrain 
types to 0.] 
16.5 BROKEN SQUAD: A scenario always ends whenever a player has lost more than half of his 
Personality cards due to KIA and/or Rout. Reinforcements are not considered part of the force until they 
actually enter play.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
16.5 Two players are both in danger of having their squad broken. During a close combat struggle, the random 
draw results in a tie, eliminating both combatants, and both squads are broken. Is the game a tie, with both sides 
losing? If not, how is victory determined? 
A. It counts as a loss for both players. 
16.5, 32, 50.41, Broken Squad, Prisoners, and Surrender 
Prisoners DO count as casualties toward the calculation of a Broken Squad. 
Groups which have surrendered but have not been captured do not count as casualties toward the calculation of a 
Broken Squad. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
[EX: If a Russian player has 14 men and an AFV, he loses immediately upon loss of his 8th card. If a 
player has seven men and an IG, plus five men which will eventually enter as reinforcements [35.0], he 
loses immediately upon loss of his 5th Personnel card prior to the entry of the reinforcements. After their 
arrival he loses only after having lost seven Personnel cards.] 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to begin play of Scenario A. Before proceeding further, we 
suggest you play Scenario A and become familiar with the rules of play you've learned so far.]  
 
17. FLANKING FIRE & ENCIRCLEMENT  
 
17.1 LATERAL FLANKING FIRE: Flanking Fire can originate at any Relative Range from a group whose 
last placed "Flank" Movement card was played sideways and remains in play at the end of the turn in 
which it was played (including play in a Marsh, Gully, or successful fording of a Stream). When playing a 
Flank Movement card in this manner, the player must specify an adjacent opposing enemy group which 
it is flanking by placing a wooden marker on the group card pointing the group which he flanks.

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.1 CLARIFICATION. Flank status is declared at the time the movement card is played, and is conditional based 
on the position of the groups involved at the time the card is played. 
17.1 & 17.7 Can you play a Flank card sideways merely to allow you to change terrain or ford a stream without 
gaining either of those benefits?  
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.2 A group can flank only an adjacent group whose ID letter directly precedes or follows its own ID 
letter in the alphabet. A group cannot laterally flank a group which currently enjoys a Flanking Fire 
advantage over it (EXC: [17.3]), but may flank another group if not already flanked by that group. 
Flanking Fire is valid only if the group being flanked is also currently opposed by a directly opposite 
enemy group with the same group ID .  
[EX: Given the groups illustrated below, the following Flanking Fire options are possible. A could flank B. 
B could flank A. C could flank B. D cannot flank in the current group configuration. If B were to move 
laterally to become C, the D could flank C as could B. If C were to cease to exist, D could move laterally 
to become C and could then flank B. A could flank B. B could flank A.]  
   
A 
B 
C 
D 
A 
B 
 
 
 
17.21 A Flanking group may choose only one opposing group to Flank with its current Flank Movement 
card, and having made that choice, may not later substitute another opposing group ID for that same 
Flank Movement card. This remains true even if the original group chosen has been subsequently 
eliminated. Flanking an enemy group in no way detracts from a group's ability to fire at other enemy 
groups. 
 
17.3 NATURAL FLANKING FIRE: Flanking Fire occurs naturally without use of a Flank Movement card 
whenever a group moves forward to Relative Range 4 from Relative Range 5 thus placing it behind an 
adjacent enemy group which also has an opposing group directly in front of it (with the same group ID 
letter). Note that in this case a group could also be moving into the receiving end of a Flanking Fire 
situation from the very group it is flanking, if it too has a group directly in front of it. This is the only 
instance in which two groups may simultaneously flank two adjacent groups, and may occur only at 
these Relative Ranges.  
[EX: It is Red's turn. If Red Group B moves to range number 2 it will flank Black Group A, but will also be 
subject to flanking fire from both A and C. If it were Black's turn, he could move his Group A and/or C to 
range number 5 to flank Red Group B, and only Black Group A would be subject to Flanking Fire (from 
B)                                                .  
   
A [4] 
B [3] 
C [4] 
A [0] 
B [1] 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.3 Is Natural Flanking Fire lost per 17.41-17.44 or just Flanking Fire generated by the play of a Flank card? 
A. All forms of Flanking Fire are lost by those actions, including a group playing a movement card to encircle. 
17.3 In the example below, if Red Group B moves up to Range number 2, does it have to choose whether to get 
natural flanking fire on A or C or does it get natural flanking fire on both? 
BLACK 
RED 
A[4] 
A[0] 
B[3] 
B[1] 
C[4] 
C[0] 
A. Red Group B gets natural flanking fire on both Black groups A and C. Black groups A and C get natural 
flanking fire on Red group B 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.4 A group entitled to Flanking Fire doubles its firepower (EXC: flamethrowers) for all subsequent fire 
against the flanked defending group until one of the following actions occurs.

--- PAGE 30 ---
30 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.4 Can ordnance get flanking fire against infantry targets? 
A. No. 
17.4 In a group at Relative Range 1 that has flanking fire on an opponent, would a wounded man with a bolt 
action rifle have a firepower of 1 or 0? 
A. His firepower would be 1. 
CLARIFICATION: Perform all halving and doubling of firepower before rounding down fractions. This applies to 
all modifiers of firepower. 
17.4 and 28.53 Play of a movement card to attempt Bog Removal is not sufficient to break Flank status. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.4 & 10.45 Which values for crewed LMGs are used for non-Hero caused doubled firepower?  
A. The fully crewed value is used for flanking bonuses. The bracketed value is doubled only for Heroes using 
crewed weapons. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.4 & 12.11 Does the simultaneous halving of firepower for Moving Fire and doubled firepower for Flanking 
Fire leave a Bolt Action Rifle with its normal firepower? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.41 Flanking Fire is lost whenever another Movement card or a Wire card (not a Terrain card) is 
played on top of the flanking group. 
17.42 Flanking Fire is lost whenever a Terrain card is played on the flanked group -- even if 
subsequently rejected. 
17.43 Flanking Fire is lost whenever the defending group plays a Movement card (even to remove Wire 
or unsuccessfully ford a Stream). Movement cards played by individuals within the flanked group directly 
into the Discard pile have no effect on Flanking Fire. 
17.44 Flanking Fire is lost if either group is eliminated, or the group directly opposite the flanked group is 
eliminated or changes its group ID. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.44 ADD: Flanking fire is lost if the flanking group completes a lateral group transfer. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.5 When Flanking Fire is lost, remove the Flank Fire marker. The Flank card itself need not be 
removed if still in place, although it cannot be used again for Flanking Fire until redrawn from the Draw 
Pile and replayed. 
17.6 ENCIRCLEMENT: A group which is behind an adjacent enemy group (i.e. has reached Relative 
Range 5 with an adjacent group and then advanced past that group to Relative Range 4 again) may 
encircle it in a subsequent turn by playing a sideways Movement card (even if currently being flanked by 
that group) while still at Relative Range 4. Note that the group does not change identity, or any Relative 
Range by placement of this sideways Movement card; it merely is entitled to mark the encirclement on 
the Group Card of the enemy group. No group can take part in the Encirclement or flanking of more than 
one opposing group at a time. To be eligible for Encirclement, the adjacent enemy group must have an 
opposing group directly in front of it. These two encircling groups do not have to be capable of fire; they 
merely have to exist. An AFV is not subject to Encirclement. 
  
 
Encircled Group 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.6 This rule states, "To be eligible for Encirclement, the adjacent enemy group must have an opposing group 
directly in front of it. These two encircling groups do not have to be capable of fire; they merely have to exist." 
This implies that range doesn't matter.  
A. Incorrect. In 17.62, the directly opposing group must be at RR2 or closer to the encircled group. 
This implies that you don't need a functioning weapon.  
A. Correct. 
17.6 Rule 17.6 states that the encircling group must play a sideways Movement card "while still at relative range 
4" to encircle. Rule 17.63 implies that a group does not have to be at Relative Range 4 to encircle, but could be at 
Relative Range 3, etc., so long as they are behind the target group. These seem contradictory, which is correct?

--- PAGE 31 ---
31 
A. There is no contradiction. Encirclement has to occur at Relative Range 4, but the range may change thereafter, 
still leaving the enemy group encircled. 
17.6 & 48.33 Are reinforcements, entering in a sideways mode (without the Flanking Fire card of 35.3) at Range 
number 0 and behind an adjacent group A or D, entitled to Flanking Fire advantages? 
A. Yes. 
17.6 In the example below if Black Group A makes a Lateral Group Transfer to B, can it simultaneously encircle 
RED Group C?  
BLACK 
RED 
A[4] 
A[0] 
 
B[0] 
C[2] 
C[2] 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.61 The effects of Encirclement are threefold:  
17.611 An encircled group may not make a Lateral Group Transfer, or send or receive an Individual 
Transfer. 
17.612 All fire against an encircled group is entitled to the Flanking Fire bonus regardless of the source 
of that fire. A group already entitled to a Flanking Fire bonus against the encircled group receives no 
additional bonus. Furthermore, the Flanking Fire bonus is not lost until the encirclement is broken. 
17.613 The Panic values of all pinned Personality cards in an encircled group are reduced by one as 
long as they remain encircled. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.613 Are panic values reduced for purposes of rout resolution? 
A. No. The Panic value is decreased, not the Rout formula. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.62 An encircled group remains encircled until either opposing group which comprises the 
encirclement is eliminated, or infiltrated by the encircled group, or changes its group ID [17.7], or is at 
Relative Range 1 or less from the encircled group, or both encircling groups find themselves "in front of" 
the encircled group. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.62 If an encircled group retreats so that both the encircling groups are in front of it, but still closer than 
Relative Range 1, is the encirclement broken? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.63 An encircling group is always at Relative Range 4 or less when it first encircles an opposing group. 
It may then "retreat" towards the encircled group in a subsequent turn to reach Relative Range 5 and 
still maintain its encircling status. 
17.7 LATERAL GROUP TRANSFER: A group capable of movement can change its group identity and 
thereby its position directly opposite an opposing group by announcing a Lateral Group Transfer and 
playing a Movement card in the sideways mode (including a Ford or Flank card thereby possibly fulfilling 
double purposes). In doing so, it attempts to assume the identity of an adjacent, previously non-existent 
group. Such a group ID transfer can only occur if there is no other friendly group in that position at the 
start of the turn. The Group identity change does not occur until a Terrain card is played on the 
sideways Movement card (and accepted). However, adjacent groups which are both capable of 
movement may each play a sideways Movement card simultaneously so as to exchange positions on 
the table and group ID's. However, they cannot move into each other's previous Terrain card -- even if at 
the same range number. Note that a group on a Stream is not capable of unhindered movement, and 
therefore may be incapable of a simultaneous Lateral Group Transfer. Should either group be 
subsequently incapable of movement (due to rejected terrain placement or a failed ford attempt), neither 
group receives its new ID and change of position unless its Lateral Group Transfer did not depend on 
the success of the other group vacating the area it is moving to. A group in Marsh may change identity 
by playing only one Movement card, but still requires two Movement cards to exit that Marsh. Group ID 
transfers are limited to A through D (except when reinforcements enter play as Group E or Z; [35.1]). A 
group which is infiltrating an enemy group may not make a Lateral Group Transfer. 
  
A [3] 
B [2] 
 
A [1] 
B [2] 
C [4] 
 
[EX: Red Group C has just gotten behind Black Group B by moving to range number 4 to qualify for 
Flanking Fire (Relative Range 4; 2 + 4 = 6; 10 - 6 = 4), and may encircle Black Group B on a 
subsequent turn by playing a Movement card sideways. Black Group B may avoid that unpleasant 
possibility by retreating to range number 1 (Relative Range 5 with Red Group C). Assuming Red Group 
C does not advance again in the interim, Black Group B could then act to block Red Group C from a 
future encirclement attempt by playing a Movement card sideways and becoming Black Group C.] 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
17.7 When making a Lateral Group Transfer, can another Movement card be subsequently played on one of the 
involved groups in the forward/reverse mode before completing the transfer by play of a Terrain card? 
A. No. 
17.7 This rule states that a lateral group transfer is not complete (i.e. the new group cardt is not placed) until 
terrain is placed and accepted. How does that apply in a group exchange? Do both groups need to have terrain 
placed before the transfer is complete?  
A. Yes. 
If one group rejects discarded terrain, is the transfer nullified?  
A. Yes.  
Must both groups play terrain in the same turn for the transfers to be effective?  
A. Yes. ID are exchanged once both groups have ACCEPTED or received new terrain.  
Example: If either one of the groups rejects terrain, it loses it movement status and the transfer of both groups is 
canceled. However, if one of the two groups involved in a group exchange has terrain discarded on it, and the 
terrain is accepted, the other group involved MUST be placed in Terrain (or open ground) during its turn as its 
sole action for that turn, thereby completing the group exchange. 
Incorrect Example: If two groups are both making lateral transfers (e.g. group C to D and group B to C) then if 
the leading group (C) fails it's transfer, then the other group (B) could not transfer either. If C fails, could they try 
again prior to B completing their transfer, thus allowing both to transfer without B having to play another 
movement card?  
A. No, the situation described above is illegal. See 17.7, third sentence: "Such a group ID transfer can occur only 
if there is no other friendly group in that position at the start of the turn." So B could not go to C until the turn after 
C became D. 
17.7 When groups are exchanging positions, could the move be completed when one group plays a terrain card 
and the other plays a second movement card (assuming the terrain they are leaving is not marsh or stream)? 
A. No. 
17.7 If two groups are exchanging positions and one group is completely eliminated before they could place 
terrain, is the remaining group allowed to go into the new position (assume B and C are in a group exchange, and 
B is eliminated, can C, on its turn, become B by placing terrain)? 
A. Yes. 
17.7 & 17.9 Can a group Z or E be created if the enemy has created such a group via reinforcements?  
A. Yes. 
If so, is the "threat" of such a group (e.g. known reinforcements coming in as E later in the game) enough to allow 
you to create a counter group (E) prior to the entry of the reinforcements?  
A. No.  
Clarification: You cannot create a group Z nor a group E except as the result of reinforcements. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.7 &17.1  Can you play a Flank card sideways merely to allow you to change terrain or ford a stream without 
gaining either of those benefits?  
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............. 
17.8 INDIVIDUAL TRANSFER: An unpinned man in a group which is neither encircled, nor 
on Wire/Minefield, may transfer from one group to an adjacent friendly group with the 
same range number, by placing a Movement card in the discard tray for each man he 
wishes to transfer as the sole action of the sending group for that turn. The transfer cannot 
be an infiltrator. To transfer, either the receiving or sending group must contain an unpinned leader. The 
man being transferred is moved between the sending and receiving group and is marked with a Transfer 
chit. Both groups must have started their turn at the same range numbers and may not move from that 
range number until a turn after the Transfer chit is removed. The transferred man is subject to a +2 
modifier to the Fire Strength of all attacks against both groups as long as he bears the Transfer chit. 
Removal of a Transfer chit(s) places the Personnel card(s) in the Group receiving it, but counts as the 
sole action allowed by that group in that turn, and cannot occur in the same turn in which the transfer 
was initiated.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.8 & 11.11 & 18.2 When can a group rearrange their order? Can this be done as the sole action for a group?  
A. Yes. 
How about following individual transfer (17.8)? 
A. No.  
After crewing/uncrewing a weapon (11.11)?  
A. Yes, see 11.12.  
A group may also rearrange its order after a successful weapon acquisition (18.2).  
Read full text of rule 3.3 and 4.25 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.8 & 11.13 Can the holder of a crew-served weapon begin an individual transfer if the weapon is currently 
crewed? Can the crewman? 
A. No. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............

--- PAGE 33 ---
33 
17.8 & 14.2 If a group that a man is transfering to is fired on by a Sniper, is he also a legitimate target for the 
Sniper? If so, what position is the transferring man considered to occupy?  
A. Yes.The first position. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.8 Can a man being transferred between stationary groups be affected by a red To Hit RNC draw? 
A. Yes, as per 25.31, the transferred man is affected the same as the defending target group.  
17.8 If Groups A & C each transfer a man to Group B simultaneously, can B receive both of them with one action?  
A. Yes. 
17.8 This rule uses the term "man" instead of Personality card, but, for completeness, can an IG make and 
individual transfer?  
A. Yes, but 34.3 applies.  
17.8 May a man make an Individual Transfer into or from a group that has a Movement card in play from a 
previous turn? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 When a man is in the process of transferring and the receiving group is fired on, what position does the 
transferring man occupy for purposes of the fire resolution? 
A. Transferring men are always attacked first. 
17.8 When an individual transfer takes place, the group receiving the transfer can not be rearranged at that time 
(3.3). Where then do the transferring men go? Are the placed at the front of the group, at the back, or can they be 
placed anywhere they want, just so long as the rest of the group order is not changed? 
A. They can be placed anywhere the owning player wants, just so long as the rest of the group order is not 
changed. 
Example: Group A - 5, 7, 2, 10; Group B - 3, 8 (transferring), 11 can become: 
Group A - (8, 5, 7, 2, 10) or (5, 8, 7, 2, 10) or (5, 7, 8, 2, 10) or (5, 7, 2, 8, 10) or (5, 7, 2, 10, 8). 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.8 & 11.13 Can the holder of a crew-served weapon begin an individual transfer if the weapon is currently 
crewed? Can the crewman? 
A. No. No.  
17.8 & 20.39 If an opposing group wishes to infiltrate a group whose last member is in the act of a transfer, does 
the infiltration attempt suffer the two-column shift to the right for movement? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 Before an Individual Transfer is completed, the opponent places wire on the "sending" group. Since the 
Transfer was begun when the sending group had no wire, can the transfer still be completed? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 Can an individual transfer INTO a group in wire? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 If an individual uses a "ford" movement card for an individual transfer out of a stream is the fording 
automatic? If the individual is fired upon and pinned before he completes the transfer is he returned to the stream? 
A. Yes. Yes. 
17.8 Can a Hero be immediately played upon a man just pinned in a transfer, allowing him to continue the 
transfer? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 A man in the act of Individual Transfer may not participate in the Fire Attacks or any other action of the 
groups he is between, other than to be received by one of those groups, thus ending the Individual Transfer. A man 
in the act of Individual Transfer is subject to the effects of any attacks made on the groups he is between as if he 
were a member of both groups. 
17.8 Can men in the process of Individual Transfer fire? 
A. No. 
17.8 Can a transfer be cancelled, returning the transferees to their original group, as that group's sole action, 
merely by announcing that intention and removing the transfer chit(s)? 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.81 If the transferring man starts in an unforded Stream, his transfer is conditional on his successful 
fording of that Stream. If the transferred man starts in a Marsh, he cannot transfer unless his group 
already has a Movement card in play (in which case he need play only one). 
17.82 Individual transfers can be used to reduce a group to less than two men or even remove it 
altogether, but may not be used to increase a group to 11 or more Personnel cards. 
17.83 In addition to the +2 modifier for his Transfer chit, an individual transfer receives the terrain effects 
modifier of the group being attacked (EXC: a transfer is moving and therefore not eligible for 
Entrenchment modifiers). 
17.84 A man who is pinned during transfer loses his Transfer chit and is returned to his original group. 
17.9 GROUP CREATION: Once play begins, a new group can be created only by the arrival of 
reinforcements [35.0] or splitting an existing group by individual transfer.

--- PAGE 34 ---
34 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
17.9& 17.7 Can a group Z or E be created if the enemy has created such a group via reinforcements?  
A. Yes. 
If so, is the "threat" of such a group (e.g. known reinforcements coming in as E later in the game) enough to allow 
you to create a counter group (E) prior to the entry of the reinforcements?  
A. No.  
Clarification: You cannot create a group Z nor a group E except as the result of reinforcements 
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
17.9 If a new group is being created, can the transferring men be attacked as the new group, even if it has not yet 
been placed? A. No.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.91 Individual transfer can be used to create a new group only if one of the positions next to the 
creating group (A through D) is not already occupied by a friendly group. To create a new group in that 
position, the creating group must qualify for Individual transfer and simultaneously attempt to transfer at 
least two men to the new group. 
17.92 The Group Creation is completed when the new group plays a Terrain card. If any transferring 
man is pinned prior to the play of a Terrain card on its group -- the transfer fails and the entire group is 
returned to the creating group. Otherwise, all rules for Individual Transfer apply. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.92 Can the opponent play terrain on the not yet created group, thus creating the group (or not if terrain is 
refused)? If yes, what happens if the transferring PCs decline the terrain? 
A. Yes. They are sent back to the original group, and are not still transferring   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
 
18. WEAPON ACQUISITION 
 
18.1 WEAPON LOSS: The weapon of a man eliminated by a KIA result (including non-survivable Panic) 
need not necessarily leave the game with him. If the man was occupying or moving in Marsh or Stream 
terrain, his weapon is assumed to have been lost and is removed with the man's card. Otherwise, his 
weapon remains in play, in the form of a weapon chit next to the Group's Card. Exc: An infiltrator who is 
eliminated leaves his weapon in the infiltrated group. A man removed from play due to Rout [6.531] 
takes his weapon out of the game with him unless he is the principal operator of a crew-served weapon. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.1 & 20.8 Do unposessed weapons remain with captured terrain and thus become subject to future acquisition 
attempts?   
A. Yes.   
 18.1 Does the principal operator of a crew-served weapon leave his weapon behind even if the weapon is not 
currently being served by a crew man?   
A. Yes.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.2 A weapon counter may be acquired by any unpinned infantryman in the same group, 
provided he does so as the sole action of that group for that turn [4.25]. To successfully 
acquire the weapon he must draw a black RNC. The weapon chit is then placed on his 
card and replaces all weapon characteristics printed on his card. However, if he draws a 
red RNC, there is no result even though that group is considered to have expended an 
Action in the attempt.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.2 The primary operator of a crewed weapon is killed, and the crew man is pinned. If another member of the 
group acquires the weapon before the crewman is rallied (and, therefore, able to acquire it automatically), is the 
crew man still considered to be crewed to the weapon?   
A. Yes 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
18.2 & 11.11 & 17.8 When can a group rearrange their order? Can this be done as the sole action for a group?  
A. Yes. 
How about following individual transfer (17.8)? 
A. No.  
After crewing/uncrewing a weapon (11.11)?  
A. Yes, see 11.12.  
A group may also rearrange its order after a successful weapon acquisition (18.2).  
Read full text of rule 3.3 and 4.25 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
18.21 WEAPON EXCHANGE: A man may not keep possession of, nor fire, more than one weapon. In 
acquiring a weapon, he automatically exchanges his previous weapon (EXC: [20.74], SW [21.1]) for the 
weapon chit just gained by leaving a proper weapon chit in its place. Primary weapons of pinned and 
unwounded men cannot be voluntarily exchanged. However, a secondary weapon of an unpinned or

--- PAGE 35 ---
35 
wounded man may be given to another unpinned man in the same group automatically as the sole 
action of that group for that turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.21 May an armed man give his primary and only weapon to an unarmed man?   
A. No, unless the armed man is wounded.   
18.21 & 33.3 To clarify these two rules:   
A pinned man can never be involved in a weapon exchange.Weapon exchanges of primary weapons must involve 
at least one wounded man.   
Weapon exchanges of secondary weapons need not involve a wounded man.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.22 ASSISTANT CREWMEN: A crew-served weapon cannot be acquired by any man other than the 
assistant crewman unless the assistant is pinned. An assistant crewman's acquisition attempt of the 
weapon he was crewing is automatically successful, although that acquisition still counts as an Action 
taken by that group. Once the assistant crewman acquires sole possession of the crew-served weapon, 
he must abandon his own weapon and ceases to be the assistant crewman. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.22 Does an assistant crewman still have crewman status when the principal operator of a crew served weapon 
is KIA in regard to a close combat attack?   
A. Yes, but be sure to note Rule 20.71.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.3 The weapon of a pinned man cannot be acquired as long as he remains in the game. 
18.4 An unacquired weapon counter (not placed on a man's card) is removed from play permanently if 
the group it belongs to has a Terrain or Movement card played on it (even if subsequently rejected and 
discarded). Play of a Movement card directly into the Discard pile by a single man of that group does not 
remove the unacquired weapons of that group from play. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.4 & 13.33 Does the playing of a movement card to remove wire cause weapon counters to be lost? Does the 
play of ARTIFICIAL Terrain remove weapons counters? 
A. Yes. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
18.4 Does the playing of a movement card to remove wire result in the loss of any unacquired weapons?   
A. Yes.   
 18.4 Does the play of artificial terrain, i.e. smoke or wire, cause the loss of any unacquired weapons?   
A. No.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 
19. MALFUNCTION  
 
19.1A weapon may possibly jam or run out of ammunition if its group fires and, in the process of 
resolving that fire against any target in the defending group, a red RNC 6 is drawn.  
19.11 If the firing group contains only one firing weapon with usable firepower factors, and a red 6 RNC 
is drawn to resolve its attack that weapon automatically malfunctions, and any remaining defenders 
which have not yet had the attack against them resolved need not do so. 
19.12 ORDNANCE: An ordnance weapon [25.5] malfunctions automatically if, in resolving its To Hit 
possibility, a red 5 or red 6 RNC (EXC: ATR) is drawn. A red 5 or red 6 RNC drawn during the resolution 
of an already attained hit does not create a malfunction. 
19.13 If the firing group contains more than one weapon with usable firepower factors, a RPC is 
immediately drawn to determine which weapon in the group actually malfunctions. All weapons in an 
attacking group (even those with firepower of 0) are considered to be firing when the group attacks 
(EXC: flamethrowers, secondary weapons, ordnance, non-firing infiltrators, and the weapons of 
designated crewmen). If the RPC indicates a non-firing weapon has malfunctioned, there is no effect. If 
the RPC indicates a position occupied by a pinned man, there is no effect to the attack, but the pinned 
man's weapon does malfunction. If the RPC indicates a position occupied by a designated assistant 
crewman of a firing MG or a man whose weapon has no firepower at its current range, the malfunction is 
considered only momentary, and the fire against any remaining defenders in the defending group yet to 
be attacked is resolved with one less Fire Strength, but no weapon malfunctions. If the RPC indicates a 
position occupied by a firing weapon, that weapon malfunctions and combat vs any remaining defenders 
not yet fired upon is resolved with one less Fire Strength for every two Firepower factors (or fraction 
thereof) previously contributed by the malfunctioned weapon. This reduction to the Fire Strength is 
made after any halving effects for Moving or Night Fire, and is made even if the firing group did not 
require that weapon's firepower in order to play the Fire card(s) used in the attack.

--- PAGE 36 ---
36 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
19.13 Does a 5-man group containing an unarmed man check for malfunction under the "5" column?   
A. Yes. If the unarmed man's position malfunctions, there is no reduction in fire strength. The same process holds 
for groups with non-firing weapons, such as an unpinned flamethrower beyond Relative Range 5.   
Japanese LMG malfunction 19.13, 19.14, 19.2 and 45.52 The Japanese conduct a fire attack with a group 
including their LMG. A red 5 is drawn as an RNC, and the LMG malfunctions. If in the course of the SAME attack, 
a second red 5 RNC is drawn, is the LMG removed? Assuming the above attack continues without a red 5/6 RNC 
being drawn, what if, in a SUBSEQUENT attack, made by this group before the LMG is repaired, another red 5 is 
drawn. Is the weapon removed?   
A. No. No. The breakdown number of any malfunctioned weapon is a red 6.   
 19.13 & 19.14 These rules seem contradictory on the malfunction of a weapon of a designated Assistant crewman; 
which is correct?   
A. Both are. 19.14 refer to already malfunctioned weapons and those of pinned men and takes precedence over 
19.13 when either of those conditions exist. In other words, the weapon of a designated Assistant Crewman is safe 
from malfunction unless he is pinned or that weapon is already malfunctioned.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
19.14 Although pinned men and those with already malfunctioned weapons are not considered to be 
firing, their weapons are always subject to malfunction (including flamethrower, ordnance, and the 
principal weapon of a designated crewman). A player cannot specify men as not firing solely to avoid the 
possibility of their weapons malfunctioning. 
19.15 CREWED WEAPONS: Any weapon using a bracketed firepower or To Hit Frequency rating is 
also subject to malfunction on a red RNC one less than that which would otherwise result in a 
malfunction. 
[EX: A MG being fired without a designated crewman would malfunction automatically when any red 5 
RNC is drawn to resolve an attack in which it takes part. Should two such weapons participate in the 
same attack, resolve the matter of which malfunctions with a RNC draw. Should a red 6 be drawn, the 
question of which weapon may malfunction is resolved normally.] 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
19.15 Does a non-fully crewed LMG (or a captured weapon) automatically malfunction if firing from a group 
containing only regular rifles on a red "6" RNC?   
A. No for the LMG. The LMG would automatically malfunction on a red 5 RNC, but if a red 6 is drawn, the 
question of which weapon will malfunction is resolved normally. A captured weapon would automatically 
malfunction on a Red 5 or 6, per 20.741. Should there be more than one weapon that malfunctions on a red 5 RNC, 
then an RPC should be drawn to determine which eligible weapon malfunctions.   
 19.15 If a fully-crewed LMG is using its bracketed firepower to fire from a stream, does it malfunction on a red 5 
RNC?   
A. Yes.   
 19.15 When playing a Hero on the German LMG, you double the bracketed fire power. Is the LMG therefore 
considered to be firing with the bracketed malfunction rates?   
A. No. However, that same German LMG playing a Hero card while firing from a stream WOULD breakdown on 
its bracketed malfunction rates.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 
19.2 A malfunctioned weapon is symbolized by placing a "malfunction" chit on the 
Personality card (or if he already has a weapon chit, flipping it over to its Malfunction side). 
An already malfunctioning weapon which malfunctions again is removed from play. A 
malfunctioned weapon has no firepower and therefore cannot be used in qualifying its 
group to use a specific Fire Strength card. 
19.3 REPAIR: An unpinned man may attempt to repair his malfunctioned weapon provided he does so 
as the sole action of that group for that player turn [4.25] and he is not currently occupying a Stream or 
Marsh, or in the act of movement. A RNC is drawn to resolve a repair attempt. The malfunction chit and 
the personality cards, contain a listing of the RNC's that will result in repair or elimination of the weapon. 
If the RNC drawn does not match any of the numbers listed under either the Repair or Elimination 
categories, there is no effect and the weapon remains in the malfunction state subject to another repair 
attempt in a subsequent turn. The weapon may continue to be carried until removed by another 
malfunction result or a Removal result occurs during a Repair attempt. An AFV may attempt repairs 
regardless of terrain or movement status. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 19.3 & 20.6 Can more than one repair attempt be made per group per turn or can more than one man drop his 
infiltrator per group per turn?   
A. No; "sole action".   
 19.3 Can an AFV repair a weapon while it is stunned?   
A. 
No.  …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………....

--- PAGE 37 ---
37 
19.4 UNARMED: An unarmed man, or a man with a malfunctioned weapon, has his Morale 
and Panic values reduced by one as long as the condition persists (except in CC; [20.6]). He 
may assist in crewing a weapon, but his defence values remain reduced until he actually 
acquires possession of his own weapon. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
19.4 If a mortar is eliminated through a failed repair attempt, does the PC still get the stated Firepower at close 
range? If yes, does the mortar need need to be crewed to get that Firepower? Likewise, if at close range with an 
enemy, can the mortar be uncrewed so as to get both the Firepower of the mortar and that of the ex-crewman?   
A. You do not get the Firepower form an eliminated mortar. A mortar does not need to be crewed in order to get 
the stated Firepower at close range.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
[The American group depicted above is firing at the initial German group at Relative Range 2 with six 
firepower factors allowing it to play the 3 Fire Strength Fire card yielding a final attack strength of 2 after 
deducting one for the defender's terrain. The first RNC drawn is a black 1 which has no effect on 
Bernhoff. The next RNC drawn is a red 6. Posner is unaffected, but a possible weapon breakdown has 
occurred. A RPC is drawn bearing a "3" for a four-man group, and thereby indicating that PVT Myer's 
rifle has malfunctioned. The Fire Strength of the American attack is reduced by one [19.13] to 1 for 
resolution vs. PFC Griess. Nevertheless, the next RNC drawn is a black 5 which pins Griess. Griess's 
card is turned over, and a "Malfunction" U.S. rifle counter is placed on Myers.  
In the German player turn, his group can only muster one firepower factor (from Bernhoff) since Posner 
can fire neither his own rifle [11.2] due to being an assistant crewman of the LMG nor assist the pinned 
Griess [11.4]. With neither a Fire card requiring only one firepower factor, nor a Rally card, the German 
player opts to have Posner abandon his crew status [11.13] so that he will be eligible to use his rifle next 
turn.  
In his next turn, the American player decides to attempt to repair Myers' rifle. A red "6" RNC is drawn 
which permanently disables the weapon. Place an "Unarmed" chit on Myer's card. If subsequently fired 
on, Myers will defend with Morale of 4 until he acquires another weapon.] 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
If an Ordnance weapon is firing using the To Hit process (25.3), and the To Hit RNC is in the range of the 
malfunction values for that weapon, the Ordnance weapon malfunctions, automatically. 
If a group is conducting a Fire Attack (6) then ALL weapons in the group are considered to be firing with the 
following exceptions: 
o 
Flamethrowers designated as not firing 
o 
Secondary weapons (e.g. Demo Charge, panzerfaust) 
o 
Ordnance 
o 
Non-firing infiltrators 
o 
Weapons of designated assistant crewmen (however, continue reading)  
If an RNC drawn to resolve the Fire Attack is equal to the malfunction value of only one weapon, that weapon 
malfunctions automatically, and no RPC is drawn to determine which weapon malfunctions. 
Example: Japanese Group comprised of R, R, R, LMG. The RNC is a RED 5. The LMG automatically malfunctions, 
because it is the only weapon with a malfunction value of a RED 5.

--- PAGE 38 ---
38 
If the group is comprised of only one armed man, that weapon automatically malfunctions, and no RPC is drawn. 
Example: In the following four groups: (R; MP; LMG; R, Unarmed Man), no RPC is drawn to determine which 
weapon malfunctions. 
If none of the previous cases applies, then an RPC is drawn to determine which position is affected by the 
malfunction. Do include Unarmed men, and DO NOT include Men transferring. The following results and their 
impacts are (use the first case that applies): 
o 
Unarmed man - no effect. 
o 
Man is currently pinned - weapon malfunctions, no effect on FS. 
o 
Ordnance weapon or its designated crewman - no effect. Note that an ATR using FP is not considered 
firing as ordnance, and therefore both the ATR and the crewman are subject to malfunction. 
o 
Designated non-firing Flamethrower or Infiltrator - no effect 
o 
Designated crewman of a firing MG - no malfunction, contine attack with -1 FS 
o 
Weapon with 0 Firepower at the current range - weapon malfunctions, continue attack with -0 FS 
o 
Firing weapon malfunctions, and attack continues with one less FS for every 2 FP factors the weapon 
was contributing to the attack, fractions rounded up.  
Malfunctioned weapons have a base malfunction number of red 6 regardless of the malfunction number printed on 
the card. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 
20. INFILTRATION & CLOSE COMBAT  
 
20.1 When an infantry group starts its player turn at Relative Range 5 to any directly opposite or 
adjacent group, the possibility of entering into hand-to-hand combat exists. Close Combat (hereafter 
referred to as CC) is entered into and resolved differently from Fire attacks. The opposing group must 
be infiltrated before any CC attacks can be attempted. 
20.2 INFILTRATION: Unpinned men that start their player turn at Relative Range 5 to an enemy group(s) 
may attempt to individually infiltrate one or more of those groups with or without playing a 
Movement card, but how many men and how they will attempt to infiltrate must be 
designated before the first attempt is resolved. Any number of unpinned men in the group 
may attempt to infiltrate, but only as the sole action of that group for that turn.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 20.2 May a player elect to cancel remaining designated infiltration attempts upon seeing the result of earlier 
ones?   
A. No.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.21 MORALE CHECK: In order to succeed in his attempt to infiltrate without playing a Movement card, 
each man must pass a Morale Check by drawing a RNC < his current MORALE value (ignoring colour). 
If he draws a RNC which is > his current Morale value he is pinned without infiltrating, and the group is 
still considered to have expended its one allowed action for that turn, although other pre-designated 
men in that group may still attempt to individually infiltrate during that turn. 
20.22 An unpinned man may attempt to infiltrate without having to pass a Morale Check by playing a 
Movement card directly into the Discard pile (does not count as a Discard). The Movement card does 
not alter the range of the group, transform moving status onto that individual, nor have any other effect 
on the remainder of the group, and can be played even though other members of the same group may 
be pinned. The player may play as many Movement cards as he has unpinned men with which to 
attempt infiltration. 
20.23 A crewman may abandon his crew status [11.13] and attempt to infiltrate as part of the same 
action. Likewise, a man whose weapon is a flamethrower or a Secondary Weapon may wish to abandon 
it as a hindrance when he attempts to infiltrate. Any man whose listed weapon is a MMG or mortar and 
wishes to attempt to infiltrate must abandon that weapon as part of the same action. In all three cases, 
the weapon/crew status is not automatically regained upon failure to infiltrate or their return from 
infiltration; it must be reacquired as a separate action. 
20.24 A man in a group currently occupying a Minefield, or terrain containing a Wire card may not 
attempt to infiltrate. A man in a group currently occupying an unforded stream may attempt to infiltrate 
only with the aid of a Movement card. Unless the Movement card is a Ford card, that man would have to 
draw a RNC to determine if the Ford attempt was successful. Only if he succeeds in fording the Stream, 
may he then check for infiltration using that same RNC as the infiltration attempt RPC. Similarly, a group 
in Marsh terrain may not attempt to infiltrate until the Marsh card has been covered by placement of two 
Movement cards. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.24 & 52.13 Can a man in a Wadi infiltrate normally or only with a Movement card?   
A. Only with a movement card.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........

--- PAGE 39 ---
39 
20.25 A man may not attempt to infiltrate against a group on a Minefield card, but may attempt 
infiltration against men in Stream, Marsh, or Wire covered terrain. 
 
20.3 INFILTRATION RESOLUTION: When checking for infiltration, the attacker draws a RPC and uses 
the column equalling the number of Personnel cards in the defending group as his starting point, but 
may have to shift right or left one or more columns due to a wide assortment of circumstances. Having 
determined the proper column to check for infiltration status, the attacker then determines whether he 
has drawn a red or black random position number. If the number is red, the attacking man has infiltrated 
the enemy position. Place an Infiltrator's chit on the attacking man's card. If the number is black the man 
was unable to infiltrate the enemy position. However, he suffers no penalty for the failed attempt and 
may attempt to infiltrate again in a future turn. The player attempting to infiltrate may play a Concealed 
card for each man attempting infiltration. The Concealed card provides a leftward shift equal to its 
negative modifier to the infiltration attempt of the man it was played for.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.3 Must the decision to play a Concealed card be made prior to the RPC draw?   
A. Yes.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.31 NIGHT: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate during a Night scenario [38.6], a shift of three 
columns to the left on the RPC is made to determine infiltration status (EXC: [38.6]). 
20.32 SMOKE: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate and either his and/or the defender's group is in 
smoke, a shift of two columns to the left on the RPC (for every smoke card in effect) is made to 
determine infiltration status. 
20.33 BRUSH: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from Brush terrain, a shift of two columns to the 
left on the RPC is made to determine infiltration status. 
20.34 WOODS:If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from Woods terrain, a shift of one column to the 
left on the RPC is made to determine infiltration status. 
20.35 HILL: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from a Hill, there is a one column shift to the right to 
determine infiltration status. 
20.36 PILLBOX: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate against a Pillbox, there is a one column shift to 
the right to determine infiltration status. 
20.37 OPEN GROUND: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from Open Ground terrain, a shift of two 
columns to the right on the RPC is made to determine infiltration status. 
20.38 PINNED DEFENDERS: There is a one column shift to the left on the RPC for each pinned man in 
the defending group when determining infiltration status. 
20.39 MOVING & INFILTRATION: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from a Moving group, there is 
a two column shift to the right to determine infiltration status. If the defending group is currently moving, 
there is a two column shift to the right to determine infiltration status. The number of Movement cards in 
play by each side, do not further alter this shift. If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from a group 
which has already been infiltrated, there is a two column shift to the right to determine infiltration status. 
NOTE: This Movement penalty is not applied to a man attempting infiltration whose group is not moving, 
but who has played a Movement card into the Discard pile to avoid the need to make a Morale Check. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.39 The last member of Group A has begun an individual transfer to Group B. An enemy group wishes to 
infiltrate Group A. When checking for infiltration, does the attempt suffer a two-column shift to the right for 
movement?   
A. Yes.  
20.39 & 17.8  If an opposing group wishes to infiltrate a group whose last member is in the act of a transfer, does 
the infiltration attempt suffer the two-column shift to the right for movement? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.4 All Infiltration column shifts are cumulative, except for those of Night and Smoke which can never 
be taken together, but are cumulative with all other shifts. Column shifts below 1 or higher than 10 are 
treated as 1 or 10 respectively.  
 
[EX: A man attempting to infiltrate against a defending group of five men draws the 
RPC shown at left. In checking for infiltration, he starts with the "5o" column 
because the group he is attempting to infiltrate contains five Personality cards. He is 
infiltrating from Brush terrain, but the defending group contains a pinned man so he 
checks column 2 for infiltration status (5 [number of cards in defending group] -2 
[shift to left for Brush] -1 [shift to left for pinned man] = 2). Because the number in 
column "2b" is red, he has succeeded in infiltrating the enemy group.]

--- PAGE 40 ---
40 
20.5 INFILTRATION EFFECTS: A man who has infiltrated the defender's position is still part of his 
group, in his group's terrain, able to fire with that group, and subject to fire vs. that group. However, he 
also has several special capabilities.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 20.5 If an infiltrator is KIA, what happens to his weapon?   
A. The weapon is in his group if he was KIA by a fire/sniper attack. The weapon is in the infiltrated group if he 
was KIA in Close Combat.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.51 An infiltrator may double his firepower (EXC: flamethrowers) for any Fire attack by his group vs. 
the group he has infiltrated, and has the option of not participating in any attack by his group [19.13]. 
20.52 CC ENTRY: During future turns in which an infiltrator's group opts to engage in CC as its sole 
action, the infiltrator checks morale [20.21] or plays a Movement card for each infiltrator he intends to 
enter CC. All such CC entry attempts by the same group must be predesignated before any are 
attempted. However, if he passes his Morale Check (or plays a Movement card) his entry into CC is 
automatic. He merely draws a RPC and consults the column equalling the number of men in the 
defending group. The number in that column is the position he attacks in CC. Place his Personnel cars 
on top of the defending Personnel card and continue to resolve any other CC entry attempts from his 
group before resolving that CC. Note that CC and Infiltration attempts are two distinct types of action. A 
group cannot do both in the same turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.52 If two friendly groups that have infiltrated a common enemy group enter Close Combat on the same turn, is 
the Close Combat resolved as one large Close Combat, i.e. simultaneous, or as two separate Close Combats?   
A. They are resolved as two separate Close Combats.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.53 An infiltrator loses his infiltrator status only if he is pinned, or takes a prisoner [32.11], or if his 
group plays a Movement card (except to Remove Wire), or if he fires, or if the infiltrated group plays a 
Terrain card at Relative Range 4 to the infiltrator (or plays two consecutive Movement cards thereby 
moving to Relative Range 3 in lieu of placing a Terrain card).  
20.531An infiltrator has the option of whether or not to participate (by adding his firepower) in any fire 
attack by his group. If he does fire, regardless of whether that firepower is doubled or not, the infiltrator 
loses his infiltrator status after resolving that attack. If his group can muster enough firepower to use a 
Fire card without adding the infiltrator's firepower, he may keep his infiltrator status. 
20.532 If there is more than one infiltrator in a group, some may elect to fire (thus losing their infiltrator 
status) while others do not (thus maintaining theirs). 
20.54 An infiltrator may not be attacked by ordnance from the group it has infiltrated. However, other 
members of his group may be attacked by ordnance from that group. 
20.55 An infiltrated group may still move, but if such a move increases the Relative Range to less than 5, 
further CC is not allowed until opposing groups can once again close to Relative Range 5. However, 
previous infiltrators of the moving group retain their doubled firepower advantage (even at Relative 
Range 4) until their infiltrator status is lost as per [20.53]. 
20.56 A group may not make a Lateral Group Transfer if it is currently infiltrated or if any of its men have 
infiltrator status. A man may voluntarily drop his infiltrator status, but only at the cost of his sole action 
for that group. 
20.57 An infiltrator may attempt to acquire any unpossessed weapon of the infiltrated group as if it were 
his own group [18.2], unless that weapon still has a designated assistant crewman. 
20.6 CLOSE COMBAT VALUE: Each man has a specific Close Combat Value (CCV) which derives if 
we add his morale to his weapon CC value. Weapon CC values are as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Japanese LMG has a CC value of 2 
** If only weapon treat as 0 instead 
 
Weapon 
CCV 
Carbine & Assualt Rifles 
4 
All other Rifles 
5 
Machine Pistol 
3 
BAR 
2 
LMG* 
1 
Flamethrower 
-1 
MMG, ATR 
0 
Encumbered with Secondary Weapon 
** 
-1*

--- PAGE 41 ---
41 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 20.6 & 19.3 Can more than one repair attempt be made per group per turn or can more than one man drop his 
infiltrator per group per turn?   
A. No; "sole action".   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
A pinned man's CCV is always four less than his unpinned CCV. An unarmed man has no Weapon 
value, but neither is his Morale rating reduced by one [19.4] during CC. If the man has changed 
weapons, is performing assistant crewman duties, or is carrying a Secondary Weapon, ignore the CC 
printed on the personality card and calculate the CCV separately. A weapon's CCV is reduced by one if 
it is currently malfunctioning.  
 
 
 
[EX: PVT Kobayashi has a CCV equalling 10 (Weapon’s CC plus Morale). If he gets pinned, CCV would 
be 6 (4 less).  
20.61 An assistant crewman always has a weapon value of 0 regardless of what the other primary 
weapon in his possession might be. Note that a crewman never enters CC as the attacker; if he tries to 
infiltrate he automatically sheds his "crew" status. 
20.62 Every CCV in man-to-man CC is subject to modification as follows:  
 
20.621After all CC pairs for one infiltrating group have been determined, the defending player in CC 
may play a Concealed card to decrease the CCV of one attacker of his choice prior to the resolution of 
that particular combat. If he has another Concealed card, he may play it also in defence of another of his 
men about to be attacked by a different attacker. Similarly, the attacking player in CC may play a 
Concealed card to decrease the CCV of the defender of his choice. Neither player may use more than 
one Concealed card on any single CC resolution -- regardless of the number of men in that single CC. 
20.622 The primary attacker/defender may modify his CCV by +3 for each additional unpinned man 
attacking/defending with him [20.71] in that specific CC regardless of the weapon status of the additional 
man. 
20.7 CC RESOLUTION: CC is resolved by adding the attacker's CCV and a RNC draw (treating red 
RNC's as negative values) and comparing the total of that to the sum of the defender's CCV and a RNC 
draw. The man with the lower total is KIA. If the totals are equal, both men are KIA. There are no Terrain 
Effect Modifiers to CC resolution.  
20.71 If the defender in any CC is part of a multi-man crew, the other member(s) of that crew is also 
involved in that CC unless his position is also being directly attacked in CC. Although there is more than 
one defender, the attacker still draws only one RNC to resolve his attack; the sum of that RNC and his 
CCV is compared only to the total of the RNC and CCV of the particular defender whose position he is 
attacking. If he kills that man, he must attack again that turn against another crew member; each man 
drawing a new RNC to resolve their combat. This continues until the attacker is beaten, or has 
eliminated all the defenders in that position. 
20.72 If two or more men attack the same defender in CC, only one man (attacker's choice) attacks, 
although with the +3 modification to his CCV for each additional man. If he is eliminated, a second 
attacker must immediately attack in a new combat resolution, but without the +3 modification to his CCV 
for the now eliminated extra man. 
20.73 A man who has successfully finished CC is still a member of his group, occupying the terrain of 
that group, subject to fire against that group, and part of the firepower basis of that group. However, if he 
already has infiltrator status he may keep it to use in any subsequent CC or normal Fire attack against 
the infiltrated group only if he has defeated his last CC opponent by 3 or more in the resolution of their 
CC. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.73 An infiltrator enters close combat with a man carrying a demolition charge. The infiltrator defeats his 
opponent by more than 3, allowing him to keep his infiltrator status. Under rule 20.74, he is entitled to the enemy 
demo charge, but how does he set it off?   
Weapon CC value

--- PAGE 42 ---
42 
A. The infiltrator must drop his infiltrator status and re-infiltrate to set off the demo charge. The best way to 
respond to capturing the weapon in this situation is to decline keeping infiltration status after the Close Combat, 
even though it could be maintained 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.74 WEAPON CAPTURE: The victor in CC always has the option of taking the weapon of any man he 
has just eliminated (except ordnance) in CC or removing it from play. Place the proper weapon chit of 
the eliminated man's nationality on its new owner. The man's previous weapon remains with him only if 
it is printed on his Personnel card, but cannot be used as long as the man has possession of the 
captured weapon. The captor's own (i.e. printed) weapon becomes a Secondary Weapon [21.1] until he 
loses the captured weapon. The man may later voluntarily abandon or destroy his captured weapon only 
as his group's sole action for the turn   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 20.74 Can Light Anti-Tank weapons be captured in Close Combat?   
A. Yes, but the killed man's primary OR secondary weapon may be captured. The other weapon requires an 
acquisition check on a subsequent turn if possible or applicable.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.74 & 20.91   Does 20.91 regarding principal operators of crewed weapons take precedence over 20.74?   
A. Yes; operators of crewed weapons cannot capture weapons.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.741 A captured weapon automatically malfunctions whenever a red 5 or red 6 RNC is drawn to 
resolve any Fire attack in which it takes part unless a flamethrower [22.1] is also participating in which 
case the flamethrower malfunctions instead. No RPC need be drawn to determine which weapon 
malfunctions, unless there is more than one such weapon (including non-fully crewed weapons; [19.15]) 
involved in which case a RNC draw can usually be substituted for the RPC draw (black: this one, red: 
that one). A captured weapon which malfunctions is removed. 
20.742 If two men eliminate each other in CC their weapons remain in the infiltrated group for possible 
acquisition -- including acquisition by any infiltrator of the group. 
20.8 TERRAIN CAPTURE: Whenever the last man in a group is eliminated while his group is infiltrated, 
the Terrain card his group occupied (including entrenchments) is subject to capture by any group 
currently infiltrating that group regardless of the movement status of either group. The captor has the 
choice of replacing his own Terrain card with that of the eliminated defender's, or simply removing the 
eliminated group's cards to the Discard pile. Note that if two different groups can claim capture of the 
defender's Terrain card, it cannot be given to both groups, but that player can choose which of his 
groups to give it to. He could also transfer any man currently infiltrating that group during that turn into 
the group which receives the captured Terrain card. Any Movement cards in play on either the captor or 
the eliminated group are removed when the Terrain card is placed on its new group. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.8 & 18.1 Do unposessed weapons remain with captured terrain and thus become subject to future acquisition 
attempts?   
A. Yes.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.8 When a group is eliminated in CC and its terrain is captured, is the capturing group also entitled to a change 
of range or Group IDt?   
A. No.   
 20.8 Is the last played terrain card of an infiltrated group which has been eliminated while in the act of a double 
move subject to capture?   
A. No, because it is occupying Open ground. However, that Open ground could be captured by claiming the first 
Movement card and flipping it over.   
 20.8 If a group that has infiltrators fires at the infiltrated group using all of the men in the group, thereby losing 
infiltration, and the enemy group is completely eliminated, are the attackers still considered infiltrators for 
purposes of terrain capture?   
A. No.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.9 BERSERK: Any pinned Russian infantryman at Relative Range 5 to an enemy group 
who Panics is not automatically removed from play. If the Random Position Number under 
the "0r" column of the RNC which caused him to panic is < his Panic value the man is not 
killed [6.53], but is considered berserk. Place a berserk counter on his Personnel card 
which remains Pinned side up. If an already berserk man panics again due to subsequent 
fire he is considered KIA. A berserk man is not subject to execution by a Commissar 
[15.53].  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.9 CLARIFICATION: Berzerk status allows CC in situations not normally allowed (i.e. vs. Pillbox or Minefield 
or from a Pillbox, Wire, Stream or Marsh). No infiltration check is made, and there is no modification made nor 
any check taken due to terrain or artificial terrain situaitons. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........

--- PAGE 43 ---
43 
20.91 A berserk man automatically enters CC without infiltration at the very start of his turn against any 
group at Relative Range 5 even if his group would be otherwise barred from entering CC. He does not 
take a Morale Check or attempt to infiltrate. After drawing a RPC to determine the defender(s) in a multi-
man group, he attacks with his Pinned CCV. If victorious he is automatically rallied and no longer 
berserk. The charge of a berserk man into CC does not count as an action taken by his group. A berserk 
man who is the principal operator of a crewed weapon leaves that weapon behind and enters CC 
unarmed. If victorious in CC he remains unarmed until he reacquires his weapon normally by drawing a 
black RNC (using an Action is the attempt). Infantry Gun crews are not eligible for Berserk status. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.91 & 20.74 Does 20.91 regarding principal operators of crewed weapons take precedence over 20.74?   
A. Yes; operators of crewed weapons cannot capture weapons.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
20.92 In the rare instance in which a berserk man may not enter CC because the only opposing group at 
Relative Range 5 has moved away in the interim, he is rallied and no longer berserk. 
 
21. DEMOLITION CHARGES  
 
21.1 SECONDARY WEAPONS: There are four types of secondary weapons: Demolition Charges [21.2], 
Panzerfausts [30.3], radios [40.0], and Anti-Tank Magnetic Mines [31.0]. Secondary weapons are 
represented by chits. Only unarmed men or those armed with a rifle, assault rifle, carbine, BAR, or 
machine pistol may carry a secondary weapon. No man may carry more than one secondary weapon.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 21.1 Men armed with certain weapons are not able to carry secondary weapons, such as a demolition charge. Say 
a group is made up of a man with a flamethrower and a man carrying a demo charge. The man with the FT is 
killed. In order for the other man to acquire the flamethrower, he must abandon the demo charge. Rule 45.6 would 
seem to establish a precedent for this abandonment NOT counting as an action, as would rule 18.21. Does 
abandonment of a secondary weapon count as a separate action from the attempt to acquire the weapon?   
A. In this instance, the acquisition of the primary weapon and abandonment of the secondary weapon are 
simultaneous. However, additional clarification is needed.   
A primary weapon that does not allow its possessor to carry secondary weapons may not itself be possessed as a 
secondary weapon. Otherwise, a man abandons his currently possessed secondary weapon when he 
SUCCESSFULLY ACQUIRES the new secondary weapon. Additionally, a man may acquire a primary weapon 
that does not allow the possession of secondary weapons only by abandoning ALL currently possessed weapons 
upon acquiring the new primary weapon. Conversely, a man with a primary weapon that does not allow 
possession of secondary weapons must acquire the primary and secondary weapons of a killed man as two 
separate actions.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
21.11 SQUAD CAPACITY: The possession of Anti-Tank type secondary weapons is limited by scenario 
definition. In DYO scenarios, these are limited to a maximum of one/squad for the U.S., two per squad 
for the German, and three per squad for the Russian. No squad, regardless of nationality, may have 
more than one Demolition Charge per squad. Squads are defined as 10 or less men for the Germans, 
12 or less for the U.S., and 15 or less for the Russians. Infantry Guns and AFV's are not counted in 
squad totals. 
21.2 DEMOLITION CHARGE: A man armed with a Demolition Charge may attack with that 
weapon only once and only on the turn he has infiltrated the enemy position. If he wishes to 
infiltrate without placing his Demolition Charge, he must so state before attempting infiltration 
in which case he will be unable to use the Demolition Charge until he once again infiltrates 
an enemy position. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
21.2 Does an infiltrator who sets off a Demolition Charge lose its infiltration status?   
A. Yes - as per normal application of 20.53.   
21.2 How can a Demo Charge be used with a strength of 8 against an AFV?   
A. It can't. A Demo Charge can be used versus armored targets only in CC and only as a +4 CC DRM (28.81).   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
21.3 DETONATION: A Demolition Charge attacks the infiltrated group with a Fire Strength of 8 (prior to 
any modification for concealment and/or defender's terrain) and does not require the play of a Fire card. 
No Terrain Effects Modifiers for the attacker's terrain apply. A Demolition Charge attack must be the 
only attack made by its group against the target group during that turn. Any friendly men other than the 
man carrying the Demolition Charge currently infiltrating the target group are also attacked by the 
Demolition Charge, although they use their own group's terrain and therefore their terrain effects 
modifiers may vary. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
21.3Do Smoke or Fire cards modify a Demo Charge attack?   
A. Only Smoke cards on the defender's group modify a Demo Charge attack.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........

--- PAGE 44 ---
44 
21.4 MALFUNCTION: A Demolition Charge malfunctions only if a red 6 RNC is drawn as the first RNC 
used to resolve combat in an attack in which the Demolition Charge is used. A Demolition Charge which 
malfunctions is worthless. It may not be repaired. 
 
[STOP ! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario B. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario B until you feel comfortable with the game rules presented thus far.] 
  
22. FLAMETHROWERS  
22.1 The Fire Strength of any attack which includes a firing flamethrower is not subject 
to negative modification for the defender's terrain, but is subject to modification for the 
attacker's terrain. Concealed cards, Smoke, and Wire can be used to reduce the Fire 
Strength of most flamethrower attacks. Moving status [12.1] halves the strength of a 
flamethrower attack only if the flamethrower is not providing all the necessary 
firepower for use of the Fire card used in that attack. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
 22.1 Do flamethrower attacks negate the -1 modifier of a defender's entrenchment?   
A. Yes 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
22.2 A flamethrower does not have to participate in any attack by its group [19.14] if the owner states in 
advance that he will not use it, although a flamethrower carried by a pinned man is always subject to 
malfunction. 
22.3 MALFUNCTION: A flamethrower malfunctions automatically if a red 5 or red 6 RNC is drawn while 
resolving combat against any defender in an attack in which the flamethrower is used. No NPC need be 
drawn to determine which participating weapon in the attacking group malfunctions [19.13]; if a 
flamethrower is participating it automatically becomes the malfunctioning weapon. A flamethrower 
malfunctions only if it is being used in an attack, or if its position is drawn on a Malfunction RPC while 
the operator is pinned. Even if the flamethrower malfunctions, the remainder of the attack for any other 
participating weapons may be carried out, and without any negative modifiers to the Fire Strength for the 
defender's terrain. 
22.4 The KIA defence value of any man who acquires a flamethrower not listed on his card is reduced 
by one as long as he keeps that flamethrower. Similarly, a man whose card lists a flamethrower as his 
principal weapon has his KIA value increased by one if he discards the weapon. 
22.5 VS AFV: A flamethrower can be used against the armored defence value of an AFV, but the Fire 
card(s) employed in the attack cannot require more firepower factors than that provided by the 
flamethrower alone, regardless of the number of firepower factors supplied by other weapons 
participating in the same attack (unless those other weapons also have anti-armor capability; see [28.7]). 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 22.5 Can each man's boxed value of one (at RR5) be combined with the boxed value of a FT in attacking a pinned 
Open Topped AFV?   
A. Yes. 22.5 (Last line in parenthesis).   
 22.5 Can a group of rifles and a FT make two attacks vs. an unpinned open topped AFV (assuming the correct fire 
card(s)), one with their firepower (rifles + FT) vs. the exposed crew using the unboxed defensive values and then 
the second boxed attack (1 per man + FT) vs. the boxed defense?   
A. Yes. This is the reference provided in the last sentence of the rule.   
 22.5 Does the FT man also have a 1 boxed firepower in addition to the FT (like riflemen have)?   
A. No, the FT's firepower is already boxed and that is the boxed firepower available to that personality card at 
relative range five. It does not get a bonus boxed firepower of "1" at Relative Range 5 per 28.7.    
 22.5 Would a FT man have a boxed fire power of 1 when the FT is malfunctioned or if he is unarmed?   
A. Yes, and this applies to non-FT men.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
22.6 A flamethrower does not have its firepower doubled due to infiltrating or Flanking Fire. 
 
23. PILLBOX  
 
23.1 Whenever the Pillbox card is used in a scenario, a Scenario Special Rule 
states the player who is to receive it. It is removed from the Action deck and given 
to him prior to setup. 
23.2 The player receives the Pillbox card in addition to his normal allotment of 
cards and must place it first on his Group B prior to Preparation for Play Terrain 
Placement [3.6]. 
23.3 The maximum number of men in a group with a Pillbox card is three. No 
mortar, secondary weapon, bazooka, panzerschreck, I.G., or AFV may occupy a 
Pillbox card. 
23.4 The defending group occupying a Pillbox receives a -4 modification to the

--- PAGE 45 ---
45 
Fire Strength of the group attacking it, but may never use a Concealed card. Ordnance must use its 
non-boxed Effect Number rather than its boxed (anti-armor) Effect number when attacking a Pillbox. 
23.5 The defending group in a Pillbox is not subject to CC attacks, nor can they attempt to infiltrate from 
a Pillbox. However, opponents may attempt to infiltrate a group in a Pillbox so as to double their 
firepower or make a Demolition Charge attack. 
23.6 A Pillbox cannot be attacked by Overrun [29.0], nor does the +1 modification for Elevated Fire 
apply to attacks made against a group defending in a Pillbox. 
23.7 The occupants of a Pillbox cannot fire at (or be fired on by) a group behind it (i.e. occupying range 
number 6). However, once behind a Pillbox, an adjacent group could "retreat" back to range number 5 
and still be considered "behind" the Pillbox. An adjacent group behind a Pillbox at range number 5 
attacks the Pillbox with Flanking Fire. The occupants of the Pillbox can attack an adjacent group behind 
them at range number 5 only after halving the Fire Strength (fractions rounded down) of any Fire card(s) 
they play. 
23.8 Normal Flanking Fire is ineffective against a Pillbox. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
23.8 Can a pillbox be encircled?   
A. Yes, but 23.8 overrides the effects of 17.612 (i.e. Flanking Fire vs a pillbox is obtainable only by 23.7).  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
24. MINEFIELD  
24.1 Minefield cards are a specialized form of Terrain card used in only a few 
scenarios. In most games they are treated as Cower cards for one or both 
nationalities [2.22]. 
24.2 A Minefield is a specialized form of Open Ground terrain with no modifiers to 
either offence or defence. 
24.3 A Minefield card can be placed on an opposing group in lieu of a discard 
[4.3]. In order to place a Minefield card on an opposing group, that group must be 
currently eligible to receive a Terrain card (i.e. it must have a Movement card in 
place, uncovered by another Terrain or Wire card, or two Movement cards in the 
case of movement out of a Marsh. Unlike most other Terrain cards, a Minefield 
card cannot be rejected by the recipient.  
24.31 When a Minefield card is placed, it results in an immediate attack on one of the positions in that 
group. A RPC is drawn to determine the position within the group that is attacked, and then a RNC is 
drawn and added (color has no effect) to the attack strength of the Minefield card to determine the effect 
on that defender. 
24.32 Wire is the only card which may modify a Minefield attack. 
24.33 VS AFV's: Minefields have a boxed Fire strength of 1 when attacking an AFV, but may attack only 
the Flank Armor defence value of the AFV. If the combination of the Fire Strength and RNC draw 
(treating a red RNC as a negative number) > the Flank Armor defence value, the armored target is 
immobilized [28.44]. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
24.33 Which Flank Armor Defense value is the one to use for a minefield attack?   
A. The Immobilize defense value.   
 24.33 How does an AFV exit a minefield?   
A. Minefield attacks versus an AFV are treated the same as if they were against an infantry group, except that it 
attacks with a base anti-armor strength of 1. The AFV defends with its immobilization Flank Armor Defense 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
24.4 EXIT: All Movement cards placed on top of a Minefield card must be played in a sideways mode 
(with no Flanking Fire advantages) so as not to change the range number of that group. If a player 
places a Terrain card on top of a Minefield card which has been played against his own group which is 
covered by only one Movement card, he leaves the minefield but the Minefield immediately attacks 
again. However, this time every position in the group undergoes a separate attack with a separate RNC 
although the colours of the RNC's are observed as negative or positive modifiers to the attack strength. 
However, if the opponent places a Terrain card on the group, the group escapes the current Minefield 
card without further attack. If a player places two sideways Movement cards (one per turn) on top of a 
Minefield card, he leaves the minefield and may then play a Terrain or Movement card on his group in a 
subsequent turn without being attacked by the Minefield. Whenever a Movement card is played on a 
Minefield, for any reason, including the removal of Wire, a RNC must be drawn. If that RNC is red and > 
the number specified on the second line of the Minefield card's notes, another man in the group must 
undergo Minefield attack as per [24.31]. 
24.5 REMOVAL: If the group in the Minefield contains any unpinned man, he may attempt to clear a 
path through the Minefield without playing a Movement card and thereby remove the Minefield card by 
drawing a black RNC > the Fire Strength of the Minefield. The attempt to remove the Minefield card 
counts as that group's only allowed action for the turn. If successful, the Minefield card is flipped over to 
represent Open Ground. However, if a red 5 or red 6 RNC is drawn, that man must undergo Minefield 
attack as per [24.31].

--- PAGE 46 ---
46 
24.6 Minefield cards are never returned to the Action deck once played on an opposing group. They are 
removed from the game instead. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
24.6 & 52.11 Are minefield cards removed from the deck in a Desert scenario if rejected by the opponent or 
accepted and subsequently proved fake?   
A. No.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
24.7 CLOSE COMBAT: A man in a Minefield cannot attempt to infiltrate, or be attacked in CC. If a man 
goes berserk in a Minefield he is eliminated. 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario C. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario C until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.]  
 
25.ORDNANCE  
 
25.1Any Personality card containing a To Hit column instead of, or in addition to, a firepower column is 
an ordnance weapon. Ordnance weapons require a hit to be scored against a target before resolving the 
actual Fire Strength of the attack. The different types of ordnance in the game include: mortars, Infantry 
Guns (IG), AFV's, and a variety of light anti-tank weapons (Panzerfausts, Panzerschrecks, Anti-Tank 
Rifles, & Bazookas). 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.1 & 34 How does an Infantry Gun repair? 
A. An IG is ordnance. Therefore, it repairs normally (19.3) using the Repair values on the "Malfunction 
Ordnance" marker; i.e. black 0-6 for Repair, and red 6 for Remove.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.2 A group may not make an ordnance attack in addition to a normal firepower attack, nor may two or 
more ordnance weapons combine to make a single attack. Therefore, an AFV which would otherwise be 
capable of both a normal firepower attack and an ordnance attack may use only one type of attack per 
turn. However, two different pieces of ordnance in the same group could each fire in the same turn at 
the same target as one Action, but each would require play of its own Fire card and would resolve its 
own To Hit attempt (and the effect of any hit obtained) separately. 
25.3 TO HIT: Ordnance attacks are resolved in two steps. Before affecting the defending group, the 
firing ordnance must obtain a hit on the target. To obtain a hit, the firing player must play a Fire card of 
any value. This entitles the firer to draw a RNC. If the RNC drawn is one of the numbers listed for that 
ordnance at its current Relative Range from the target group, a hit has been obtained and is resolved as 
per [25.4]. The colour of the RNC is immaterial except as specified by [25.32]-[25.33]. If a hit is not 
obtained, play ends for that group for that player turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.3 Can Ordnance opt not to fire, and just discard the fire card, after seeing all the modifiers (as in a fire attack) 
after concealment is played (or even if there is no concealment)?   
A. Yes, this is the same situation described in 6.5. The attack may be called off once the To Hit number is known, 
but not after drawing the To Hit result.  
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..........  
25.31 If the defending group is moving, or Hull Down [28.9], any red RNC is considered a Miss. 
25.32 If the firing ordnance is moving, any red RNC is considered a Miss. Note that only certain AFV 
types may fire ordnance while moving. 
25.33 If both the target and the firing ordnance are moving, or if the target is Hull Down and the firer is 
moving, any red RNC is considered a miss and the To Hit frequency of the firing ordnance is reduced by 
one. 
25.34 If an infantry defender has a Concealed card, he may play it prior to the resolution of the To Hit 
process to reduce the To Hit frequency of the firing ordnance for that attack by the amount listed on the 
Concealed card (see [25.6]). 
25.35 Except as used to define Hull Down or to prevent fire into/out of a Gully, Terrain cards do not 
affect the To Hit process. 
25.4 HIT STRENGTH: Once a hit has been obtained, the strength of that hit is determined by adding the 
To Hit Random Number on the RNC just drawn to the Effect Number listed on the ordnance card. (EXC: 
IG/AFV ordnance firing at an AFV target does not add the To Hit Random Number just drawn; instead it 
adds a number equal to the Relative Range between the firer and the target.) The colour of the RNC 
has no effect; all numbers are added. Having now determined the total strength of the attack (after 
modification for terrain and/or movement), it is resolved separately for each target in the defending 
group by drawing a new RNC and adding any black number or subtracting any red number drawn as per 
a normal fire attack [6.5].

--- PAGE 47 ---
47 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.4 & 6.5 Does the attacker have the option of foregoing the resolution of an ordnace hit after seeing the Final 
Strength Number? 
A. No, but the attack can be cancelled after seeing the final "To Hit" number. This includes the play of any 
concealment. Once the "To Hit" card is drawn, the attack must be completed. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.41 The movement status of the defender alters the Fire Strength of a hit against non-AFV targets 
only. 
25.42 Most ordnance weapons have two ordnance Effect Numbers; the boxed value is used against the 
armored defence values of an AFV; the unboxed value is used against all other targets. 
25.43 The Random Number on the To Hit RNC is never added to the Effect Number of a hit if a black 0 
RNC would not also have resulted in that hit. 
25.5 MALFUNCTION: Ordnance weapons malfunction [19.12] only if they draw a red 5 (EXC: ATR) or 
red 6 RNC when attempting To Hit -- not during the resolution of a hit. Some ordnance weapons which 
are more prone to a malfunction do so when drawing a red 4, red 5, or red 6 when attempting to hit.  
  
 
 
 
 
 [EX: PFC Towle is at Relative Range 4 to the moving target group and because he lacks a crewman to 
load his bazooka [30.2] he must use the bracketed TO HIT numbers to gain a hit. The first RNC drawn is 
a black 0 resulting in a hit. Note that had it been a red 0, the shot would have missed because the target 
group is moving. The Fire strength of the hit is 2 (Effect Number [2] + To Hit Number drawn [0] = 2), 
which, despite modifications remains a 2 (2 {Fire Strength] - 1 [Brush] + 1 [Movement] = 2). The second 
RNC drawn is a black 6 which kills Wolff (2 + 6 > 8). The third RNC drawn is a red 1 which leaves 
Schultz unaffected (2 - 1 = 1 < 2).] 
 
25.6 TO HIT FREQUENCY: A To Hit frequency of "0-1" is reduced by one by treating it as a "0", a To Hit 
frequency of "0" is reduced by one by treating it as a "1", a To Hit frequency of "1" is reduced by one by 
treating it as a "2", etc. Similarly, a To Hit frequency of "3" is increased by one by treating it as a "2", a 
To Hit frequency of "1" is increased by one by treating it as a "0", and a To Hit frequency of "0" is 
increased by one by treating it as a "0-1", etc.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.5, 25.6 A non-moving piece of ordnance has its "to hit frequency" modified by range, wire and a concealed 
card to needing a RNC draw of 5 to hit its non-moving target. A red 5 is drawn as the RNC. Does the ordnance 
malfunction instead of making a hit?   
A. Yes 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.7 SMOKE: Smoke does not affect the Fire Strength of an ordnance hit, but does modify the To Hit 
frequency or ordnance firing into and/or from it accordingly. 
25.8 SMOKE PLACEMENT: An IG may not place Smoke. U.S. and German AFV's with an anti-armor 
Effect Number of 4 or more may place Smoke on any single group, friendly or enemy, not in Marsh 
terrain and within their LOS as their sole action for that player turn provided the AFV player has a usable 
Smoke card to play. Firing Smoke in this manner does not require the use of a Fire card. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
25.8 What other AFVs can fire smoke?   
A. British AFVs with an anti-armor Effect Number of 4 or more can fire smoke.

--- PAGE 48 ---
48 
25.8 The Italian AFV #32, the Flamethrower has an anti-armor effect number of 4 or more, but only at Relative 
Range 5. Can the Italian Flamethrower lay smoke?   
A. No.   
25.8 Can an AFV place smoke if its main armament is malfunctioning or broken? 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
26. MORTARS  
26.1 A Mortar is an indirect fire ordnance weapon. The To Hit frequency of a mortar 
varies depending on whether the weapon is fully crewed or not. If the weapon is fired 
only by its principal Personality, the bracketed To Hit frequency numbers must be used. 
26.2 A mortar may not fire while moving, or in Pillbox, Marsh, Stream, or Buildings 
terrain. However, a mortar may fire into or out of Gully terrain regardless of the 
elevation of the target, and is never subject to Hull Down To Hit penalties. 
26.3 MINIMUM RANGE: Unlike other ordnance weapons, a mortar cannot fire beneath 
a minimum range. However, the principal operator of a mortar has a small arms 
firepower value at those ranges. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 26.3 If a mortar is eliminated (through a failed repair attempt) does the PC still get the stated firepower value at 
close range?   
A. No.   
Likewise if at close range with an enemy, can the mortar be uncrewed so as to get both the FP of the mortar and 
that of the ex-crewman?   
A. Yes, if the mortar is normally operational.   
This is a different situation than described in 28.7.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
26.4 Woods terrain does not modify the Fire Strength of a mortar attack. 
26.5 CRITICAL HITS: A mortar can attack only the non-armored defence values of an AFV because it is 
not a boxed (i.e. anti-armor) weapon. However, if a mortar scores a hit on an AFV with any black RNC 
and then draws a black 6 RNC to resolve that attack (a black 5 or 6 RNC for an OT AFV) it has scored a 
Critical Hit on that AFV instead of affecting the non-armored defence values of the AFV. A Critical Hit 
achieved with a black 6 RNC immobilizes the target AFV. A Critical Hit achieved with a black 5 RNC 
destroys an Open-Topped AFV. 
 
27. TARGET ACQUISITION  
 
27.1 Only a mortar, IG, or AFV ordnance weapon may qualify for Target Acquisition. Acquisition allows 
an ordnance weapon which has fired at its present target previously to increase the To Hit frequency by 
one under certain conditions. Regardless of whether a hit is obtained, whenever one of these ordnance 
weapons fires at a target, place a wooden marker to the target’s Group Card unless either the firing or 
defending group is moving (EXC: [27.3]). If that weapon had previously acquired another group, remove 
the wooden marker from this group card. An ordnance weapon may never acquire more than one target 
at a time, nor increase its To Hit frequency by more than one. If the side has more than one ordnance 
weapon capable of acquisition, place a half inch Group ID chit on the group to indicate the acquiring 
weapon if necessary.  
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
27.1 A group just played a movement card sideways to change Group ID and is fired on by ordnance. Is the old 
(current) ID  the one acquired, or is the new ID  acquired (the one the group will become when a terrain card is 
played) that is acquired?   
A. Neither! Ordnance cannot gain or maintain acquisition on a moving group.   
 27.1 Says "Only a mortar, IG, or AFV...qualify for Target Acquisition. Is the Japanese Grenade Launcher 
considered a Mortar for acquisition?   
A. Yes.

--- PAGE 49 ---
49 
 27.1 & 51.6 Can the two different guns of a Char B1 each acquire a different target and maintain acquisition 
while the other fires at a different group?   
A. No.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
27.11 Ordnance cannot acquire a target if either the firing weapon or the target is in Smoke. 
27.12 If a target is already acquired when subsequently covered by Smoke, the Smoke -1 and 
Acquisition +1 modifiers both apply. 
27.2 If an ordnance Personnel card malfunctions, fires at another target, is pinned, Buttoned Up, 
engaged in CC, or loses observation during a Night scenario [38.2], it loses Acquisition. The wooden 
marker showing aquisition is also removed if either the firing ordnance or the target group plays a 
Movement card which remains in play on the table and is not immediately removed to the Discard pile. 
(playing a Movement card to remove Wire, or unsuccessfully for a Stream, does not suffice to remove 
Acquisition.) 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
27.2 & 28.43 
o 
An AFV loses acquisition when it becomes Buttoned Up 
o 
An AFV that is already Buttoned Up may gain acquisition 
o 
An AFV that goes from Buttoned Up to Crew Exposed does not lose acquisition  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
27.3 An AFV cannot retain acquisition of one group while firing any armament at another. However, it 
may retain acquisition while firing its MG at the presently acquired target group.  
[EX: on turn 1, a fully crewed German mortar fires at a stationary group at Relative Range 0. It needs to 
draw a 0 RNC to get a hit. Regardless of the outcome, its target group marks with a wooden marker its 
Group Card to show its Acquired status. If, on subsequent turns, the Acquisition is still in effect the 
mortar will need a RNC draw of 0 or 1 to get a hit on that target.] 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario D. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario D until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.] 
 
28. ARMORED FIGHTING VEHICLES (AFV's)  
 
28.1 An AFV card represents not only the depicted Armored Fighting Vehicle, but all of the men which 
man that AFV as well. AFV cards are treated the same as Personality cards except as otherwise 
specified below.  
 28.11 An AFV may never form a group with any other card of any type. An AFV is, in essence, its own 
group. 
28.2 ASSAULT GUNS: An Assault Gun is a turret less form of AFV. The lack of a turret made it cheaper 
to produce, but less effective against mobile targets because the traverse of its main armament was 
restricted. An Assault Gun is treated as an AFV except as modified below (an Assault Gun AFV, has the 
special rules mentioned below, printed in their Personnel card. This is how you identify them from 
normal AFV’s)  
28.21 The To Hit frequency of Assault Guns is reduced by one against moving targets. 
28.22 An Assault Gun may not fire its ordnance while moving. 
28.23 An Assault Gun which is Bogged or immobilized must deduct two from its To Hit frequency. 
28.3 AFV DEFENCE VALUES: An AFV card has two “Armor” defence values printed on their card plus 
a Morale and CE Defence value. The Armor and Flank defence values represent the “Armored” defence 
strength; only attacks using solely boxed firepower or boxed "Effect Numbers" apply to this value. The 
MORALE and CE values are affected only by unboxed attack values. Ordnance firing on an AFV must 
decide in advance of the RNC draw whether it will attack the AFV's Armor defence value with its boxed 
Effect Number or the AFV's Morale and CE defence values with its unboxed Effect Number. Ordnance 
cannot attack both the boxed and unboxed defence values of an AFV with the same attack.  
Normal A.F.V. 
Open Topped A.F.V 
Assault Gun A.F.V.

--- PAGE 50 ---
50 
28.31 If there are insufficient boxed firepower factors in a group to use a particular Fire card [22.5] & 
[28.7], the boxed defence values are not affected by an attack using that card. 
28.32 The TEM of an AFV's current terrain does not affect fire vs. the Morale and CE defence values of 
that AFV. The TEM of an AFV's current terrain does affect the fire strength of a hit against the Armor 
and Flank defence values of that AFV (EXC: Hull Down; [28.92]). The movement status of the defender 
does not alter the Fire Strength of a hit against AFV targets. 
28.4 ORDNANCE ATTACK Vs AN AFV: If the AFV's Armor defence value following the "k" is < the final 
result number of a qualifying anti-armor (i.e. boxed firepower or Effect Number) attack, the AFV is 
eliminated. If the AFV's Armor defence value following the "i" is = to the final result number of a 
qualifying anti-armor attack, the AFV is immobilized [28.44]. If the AFV's Armor defence value following 
the "s" is = to the final result number of a qualifying anti-armor attack, the AFV is stunned [28.45]. Some 
AFV's have the same defence values for both immobilization and stun results as noted on their 
Personnel cards by the form "i;s#" rather than "i#/s#". An AFV target hit by that final result number of a 
qualifying anti-armor attack must draw another RNC to determine whether the AFV is immobilized (red) 
or stunned (black).  
If the firing ordnance announces it will attack the unarmored defence values of the AFV instead of the 
Armor defence values, and the AFV's MORALE defence value is face up and < the final attack result 
number, the AFV is marked on its AFV Status Card as "Pinned"/"Button Up". If that same final attack 
result number > the CE Defence value, the AFV also suffers a Commander Killed result. Otherwise, 
there is no effect. Note that Open Topped AFV cards are vehicles and cannot be "Buttoned Up", only 
"Pinned".  
28.41 Should an attack qualify for both a Kill and a Pinned/Button Up result, the Kill result takes 
precedence. 
28.42 PINNED: A Pinned result applies only to an Open Topped AFV (or IG). While pinned, it may 
neither fire nor move. A Pinned card may be unpinned by playing a Rally card of strength 3 or more on 
that group. A stunned AFV or a Pinned OT AFV lacking a Rally 3 card may still play a Rally 1 or Rally 2 
card on the AFV as its sole action for that group for that turn; in which case the AFV remains pinned, but 
in future turns could be rallied by play of another Rally card(s) bringing the total Rally capability of the 
group to 3 or more. The Rally card remains in play on the group until the AFV is rallied, stunned, or 
eliminated                                                                                           .  
 
28.421 HERO: There are two occasions in which a Hero card can be played on an AFV as other than a 
partial Rally credit. Immediately following any attack which pins an AFV a Hero card can be played to 
negate that pin result provided the AFV has not suffered a Commander Killed result in the same attack. 
A Hero card can also be played on any Buttoned Up AFV which is neither stunned nor subject to 
Commander Killed penalties to remove the Buttoned Up status. A Hero card played on a stunned AFV 
counts as the equal of a Rally card. Neither usage counts as an action. A Hero card can never be 
played to increase the firepower or To Hit frequency of an AFV. 
28.43 BUTTONED UP: Any other AFV whose Morale defence value is equalled or exceeded by any 
attack becomes Buttoned Up. Place a wooden marker to the AFV Status card (see example below) to 
show the Button Up status of that AFV. An AFV which Buttons Up remains Buttoned Up for the duration 
of the scenario (barring play of a Hero card) whether it Buttons Up voluntarily or due to enemy fire. A 
Buttoned Up AFV functions normally in all respects, but tends to have poorer accuracy, firepower, and 
mobility qualities as a consequence. An AFV starts CE. Should it wish to Button Up voluntarily, it must 
expend an Action doing so.  
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.43 & 27.2  
o 
An AFV loses acquisition when it becomes Buttoned Up 
o 
An AFV that is already Buttoned Up may gain acquisition 
o 
An AFV that goes from Buttoned Up to Crew Exposed does not lose acquisition  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.43 Does a FT AFV suffer a -1 to the Fire Strength of a FT attack if it has a -1 commander killed status on it?   
A. Yes.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........

--- PAGE 51 ---
51 
28.431 COMMANDER KILLED: If the AFV's MORALE defence value is < the final attack result number, 
the AFV merely Buttons Up or is Pinned as stated in [28.4]. If, however, the final attack result number is 
also > the Crew Exposed (CE) value (or a Sniper KIA has occurred), the AFV commander has been 
killed and the AFV suffers other penalties in addition to being Pinned/Buttoned Up. Place a wooden 
marker to the AFV Status Card (see example below). Henceforth, that ordnance will have its To Hit 
frequency and Overrun strength reduced by one, and any non-ordnance attack it makes will suffer a 
reduction of one to its Fire Strength.  
 
 
28.4311 An OT AFV may conceivably suffer a Commander Killed result more than once because when 
it is rallied it is again CE. Should such an AFV suffer a second Commander Killed result, move the 
wooden marker to the “2 Crew killed” field, in the AFV Status card. Its To Hit frequency is reduced by 
two, and any non-ordnance attack it makes will suffer a reduction of two to its Fire Strength. If an OT 
AFV suffers a third Commander Killed result it is eliminated. 
28.4312 Each Commander Killed result on an AFV also serves as a one column shift to the left when 
checking for infiltration against an AFV. 
28.44 IMMOBILIZATION: An immobilized AFV may not move (nor make an Overrun attack) for the rest 
of the scenario. An immobilized vehicle which is immobilized a second time is stunned instead. An 
immobilized (or Bogged) AFV is not considered a moving target or a moving firer. An immobilized AFV 
always defends against anti-armor attacks with its Flank defence values. In any case, the wooden 
marker is put to the relevant field on the AFV Status card        
28.441 Any Movement card currently in place when an AFV becomes immobilized, bogged, or stunned 
is removed. The range number of the AFV does not change. If the AFV has two Movement cards in 
place when it becomes immobilized or stunned, the top one is placed in the Discard pile and the other is 
flipped over to represent the Open Ground the AFV is in. Otherwise, the AFV is considered stationary on 
its last played Terrain card (EXC: A moving AFV on a Wall or Hill Terrain card which becomes 
immobilized, bogged, or stunned must flip that Terrain card over to Open Ground.) 
28.45 STUN: A Stunned AFV may not move nor fire while under a Stunned status. While stunned, an 
AFV uses the Button Up rectangle printed on its card, and removes any accumulated Rally credits an 
already pinned/stunned AFV may have in play. A Stun 3 status can be removed only after play of a Rally 
card(s) of strength 3 or more on that group in the same manner that a pinned AFV is rallied [28.42]. 
Note that removal of the Stun 3 status by itself is not sufficient to also rally a pinned AFV with the same 
action, although that is possible with play of a Rally 6 or Rally All card (or even a Rally 4 or Rally 5 card 
in combination with prior accumulated Rally credits)                                       .  
 
28.451 If an already stunned AFV is stunned again, the Stun 3 wooden marker is set to the "Stun 6" field 
on the AFV Status card. It takes a Rally card(s) or strength 6 or more to remove a "Stun 6" status, or of 
strength 3 or more to reduce it back to "Stun 3" status. A Rally All card is necessary to remove both a 
Stun 6 and unpin a pinned AFV in the same action. If an AFV with a "Stun 6" status is stunned again, it 
is eliminated. Any excessive Rally capacity beyond that needed to reduce a Stun 6 status to a Stun 3 
status is lost; it cannot be used as a partial credit towards removal of the Stun 3 status. 
28.46 FLANK SHOT: Anytime an AFV is the target of ordnance fire which enjoys a Flanking Fire 
advantage that AFV defends with its FLANK defence values instead of its normal ARMOR defence 
values. In addition to normal Flanking Fire opportunities, an AFV is subject to a Flank shot whenever it 
has a Movement card in play in the sideways mode. In addition, should an AFV become bogged (or 
immobilized) it must use its Flank defence value vs. anti-armor ordnance attacks until it becomes mobile 
(not necessarily moving) again. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.46 Does this flank shot apply to non-ordnance shots when an AFV plays a Sideways Movement card?   
A. No.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.5 MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS: An AFV may never enter Marsh. Placement of Marsh on an AFV 
during Prepare for Play [3.6] is not allowed. However, an opponent may play a Marsh card on a moving 
AFV so that the AFV will be forced to change its forward or reverse move to a sideways move, or 
remove its sideways move altogether [7.32].  
28.51 An AFV in Woods can leave that Terrain card only by playing a Movement card in the sideways 
mode.

--- PAGE 52 ---
52 
28.52 An AFV which enters a Gully, Woods, Wire, or Stream must check for Bog[28.53] when the 
Terrain card is played (even during Prepare for Play), unless that Terrain card is rejected. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.52-53 These rules never specifically state that a Bogged AFV's movement card (if one is in play) is discarded. 
Does a Bogged AFV stop moving?   
A. The AFV's movement card is removed upon entering terrain, before checking for Bog. If the AFV somehow 
BOGs while moving (i.e., by a wire discard), then yes, the move card is discarded.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.53 BOG: An AFV checks for Bog by drawing a RPC. It always checks for Bog under the group 
column specified on its card for Bog. The first number in the Bog rating is the group column used to 
check for Bog in Gully, Woods, or Stream terrain. The second number (following the "w") is the group 
column used to check for Bog in Wire. If it draws a red position number, the AFV is Bogged and marked 
with a wooden marker in the AFV Status card in the "BOG" area. The AFV may not move as long as it is 
bogged, but its Fire capability is not affected (EXC: Assault Guns; [28.23]). The Bog status can be 
removed as a separate action in a subsequent turn by playing a Movement card into the Discard pile 
and drawing a black RNC. If successful, the Bog status is removed. Ridding or attempting to rid itself of 
a Bog status does not qualify the AFV as a moving target. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
17.4 and 28.53 Play of a movement card to attempt Bog Removal is not sufficient to break Flank status. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
28.6 Movement cards never modify the Fire Strength Result Number of attacks against an AFV or its 
crew. Against armored targets, Movement cards only affect the To Hit process of ordnance [25.31]-
[25.32].  
28.61 Concealed cards cannot be played to aid the defence of an AFV or its crew. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.61 Can a Concealed card be played to aid the defense of an AFV or its crew against a non-ordnance attack?   
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.62 A Hull Down AFV does not receive any terrain modifier to the effect of a hit on it. 
 
28.7 INFANTRY Vs OPEN TOPPED AFV: All Personality cards have an inherent boxed firepower of 1 
at Relative Range 5 which can be used against an Open Topped AFV's boxed defence value in addition 
to using their normal firepower at that range against the AFV's unboxed defence value using a second 
RNC for the combat resolution.  
[EX: If three riflemen are at Relative Range 5 to a CE German halftrack, they would have a total of 9 
unboxed firepower factors to use in playing a Fire card(s) vs. the exposed crew of the halftrack. 
Although they could Pin the halftrack, and perhaps kill the commander, this would not immediately 
destroy the AFV. However, they also have an inherent boxed firepower of 3 vs. an Open Topped AFV at 
Relative Range 5, so if the Fire card they play does not require more than three firepower factors, the 
same Fire Strength card can be used to attack the halftrack a second time with another RNC, but this 
time against its armor defence. Therefore, if the three riflemen play a "Fire 2" card requiring 3 or less 
firepower factors against the halftrack and draw a black RNC of 2 or less, they have no effect vs. the 
crew. However, regardless of the first RNC drawn, they may draw another RNC to use against the AFV 
itself; if they draw a 0 or any black RNC they will destroy the halftrack; a red 1 RNC would stun it, or 
immobilize it (depending on the colour of the next RNC drawn). This is the only way a Pinned AFV can 
be affected by infantry attacks without boxed firepower weapons outside CC. Note that had the infantry 
played a higher strength Fire card, no second attack against the AFV itself could have been made by 
that group during that turn because they would have lacked the necessary boxed firepower factors.]  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.7 This rule and example are a bit confusing. I think that there are a number of typographical errors in the 
example (for instance "...they also have an inherent boxed 6 firepower 3..." The number 6 makes no sense in that 
statement, or I've completely missed something in the rules.   
A. Correct. Delete "6".   
When using inherent boxed firepower vs. an open-topped AFV (and also the flamethrower's boxed FP VS. any 
AFV) do you add the fire strength value of the fire card played to the RNC?   
A. Yes. The fire strength of the card is both the unboxed fire strength and boxed fire strength 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.7 Can infantry boxed firepower of 1 per man at Relative Range 5 be used against a closed top AFV?   
A. NO! The rule is explicitly labeled vs. Open-Topped AFVs.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.71 If an AFV is adjacent to a friendly infantry group which has the same range number as the AFV, 
the owning player may deduct one from the strength of any inherent boxed firepower infantry attack 
[28.7] against that AFV.

--- PAGE 53 ---
53 
28.72 Similarly, friendly infantry in an adjacent group with the same range number as an AFV, may 
deduct one from the Fire Strength of all attacks against them (EXC: Snipers, Minefields) in addition to its 
normal terrain modifications. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.72 Would an AFV on both sides of an infantry group allow it to deduct 2 from the Fire Strength of any attack 
made against it?   
A. No.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.8 CLOSE COMBAT Vs AN AFV: An AFV may not attempt to infiltrate, but may be attacked in CC by 
any armed man (including Secondary Weapons) which has infiltrated the AFV group during that turn. 
The "group" column of the AFV used to determine the RPC draw is not 1. The group column checked is 
"2b" for a Buttoned Up or Pinned AFV, "4c" for a CE AFV, and "5o" for a CE Open Topped AFV. Column 
shifts to the left or right on the RPC due to vision or terrain [20.31]-[20.39] are handled normally. In 
addition, there is a one column shift to the left on the RPC for each Commander Killed result previously 
suffered by the AFV. The actual resolution of CC against an AFV is much different from that against 
infantry. The defender (i.e. the AFV) does not draw a RNC. The attack is resolved solely on the basis of 
the infiltrating attacker's RNC and modifications to the attacker's strength.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.8 Once a man has infiltrated versus an AFV, does he have to play a Movement card or undergo a Morale 
Check in order to attack that AFV?   
A. No. Either a Morale Check or Movement card was required for the Infiltration attempt, but once infiltrated, the 
CC attack occurs immediately with no further requirements.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.81 The CCV of a man has no effect in CC vs. an AFV. The attacker's strength is the sum of a RNC 
draw (subtracting red numbers; adding black numbers) and the following cumulative modifications: 
 
CLOSE COMBAT MODIFIERS Vs AFV 
For each previous CC vs. the AFV that turn.................................
+1 
Attacker is berserk......................................................... 
-3 
Attacker is wounded....................................................... 
-2 
Attacker is heroic ......................................................... 
+1 
Attacker has Anti-Tank Magnetic Mine*, or Demo 
Charge*.................. 
+4 
AFV is in any type of Buildings Terrain..................................... 
+3 
AFV is in Woods, Wall, or Gully Terrain..................................... 
+2 
AFV is in Brush Terrain or Smoke (per each 
case)......................... 
+1 
AFV is CE................................................................. 
-1 
AFV has friendly, adjacent, unpinned infantry at same range 
(per group).... 
-2 
AFV is Buttoned Up........................................................ 
+1 
AFV Commander is killed (per crewman 
lost)............................... 
+2 
AFV is Immobilized or Bogged.............................................. 
+2 
AFV is Open Topped....................................................... 
+3 
*If the modifier is used, the Secondary Weapon is removed. 
 
Attacker Eliminated: < 0  No Result: 1-5  Immobilize: 6  AFV ELIMINATED: > 7 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.81 Would an Open Topped AFV be considered CE (for table 28.81 purposes) even when pinned?   
A. No.   
 28.81 Can an Open Topped AFV ever be Buttoned Up (i.e. does pinned=buttoned up for table 28.81 purposes)?   
A. No, the +3 for an OT-AFV applies.

--- PAGE 54 ---
54 
 28.81 In table 28.81, for the AFV to get the -2 modifier for "adjacent, unpinned infantry at same range", does this 
mean that the entire group must be unpinned or will one man suffice?   
A. Only one man is necessary to satisfy this condition.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.82 The attacker's modified strength must total 6 to Immobilize the AFV, or 7 or more to eliminate it. IF 
the attacker's modified strength is 0 or less, the attacker is eliminated. Any modified strength between 1 
and 5 inclusive is treated as No Result. Whatever the outcome, the attacker loses his infiltrator or 
berserk status. 
28.83 If there are multiple CC attackers vs. the AFV, each man's attack is resolved separately, one at a 
time (attacker's choice as to which is resolved first), until each attacker has resolved his attack or the 
AFV is destroyed. 
28.84 Play of Concealed cards is of no assistance in CC vs. an AFV other than their possible use during 
infiltration attempts enabling them to make the attack in the first place. 
28.9 HULL DOWN: Only an AFV or IG can be Hull Down. An AFV/IG is Hull Down if it is on a Wall card, 
or on a Hill card being fired on by ordnance which is not also on a Hill card. Placing a Movement card on 
either terrain type eliminates Hull Down status even though the group is still considered in partial cover 
of that Hill/Wall.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.9 What effect does being Hull Down have on an Infantry Gun being fired on by non-ordnance weapons?   
A. None, other than the normal application of the terrain card's TEM.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
28.91 Hull Down status does not impede the To Hit frequency of a mortar. 
28.92 A Hull Down AFV or IG does not receive any terrain modification to the Fire Strength of a hit 
against it. 
28.93 A Hull Down AFV or IG cannot be immobilized; an immobilization result is treated as a stun result 
instead. 
28.94 An AFV is never considered Hull Down to Flanking Fire. 
[NOTE: The effectiveness of infantry against armor has been overstated here for gamesmanship 
purposes. If players desire a more realistic treatment of unsupported infantry vs. armor they should 
agree beforehand to reduce by one the Morale and Panic values of all infantry opposing an AFV without 
friendly armor support.] 
 
29. OVERRUN ATTACK 
 
29.1 An AFV may perform a special type of attack called an Overrun if it is neither Pinned, Immobilized, 
Stunned, or Bogged. An Overrun attack can be made vs. any adjacent or directly opposite non-AFV 
group at Relative Range 5 provided the defending group is not occupying Marsh, Minefield, or Pillbox 
terrain.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
29 Can an AFV cancel an overrun attack after a concealed (or of even if no concealed) card is played?   
A. No.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
29.11 If any of the weapon systems of an AFV is inoperable or currently malfunctioning its OVR value is 
halved (quartered if a flamethrower) with all fractions rounded down. An AFV may never Overrun if it 
doesn't have currently functioning MG or FT armament. 
29.2 An Overrun attack does not require play of a Fire card. Instead, a Movement card is played in the 
sideways mode (and may also qualify the AFV for a subsequent Flanking Fire bonus against any 
adjacent group if the card played was a Flank card). The strength of the Overrun attack is the total of the 
OVR value and a RNC (ignoring the colour of the RNC; all numbers are added). This Overrun Strength 
is then modified by any of the defender's Terrain, Movement, or Concealed cards in play. Finally, this 
modified Overrun strength attack is resolved separately for each defender in the attacked group by 
adding a RNC draw (subtracting any red numbers) for each defender. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
29.2 If an AFV has a functioning FT when doing an overrun attack, does the defender get their terrain modifier?   
A. No.   
 29.2 Can a FT AFV (or any other AFV) malfunction on an overrun?   
A. Yes.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
29.3 All the modifiers that would apply to a normal Fire attack [6.4] apply equally to an Overrun attack 
with the exception of any Terrain cards in the attacker's group. For example, an Overrunning AFV would 
not receive a +1 modification to its Overrun strength for occupying a Hill. 
29.4 An AFV making an Overrun attack against a group defending in Brush, Buildings, Walls, or Woods 
terrain or Smoke is susceptible to immobilization or elimination as a result.

--- PAGE 55 ---
55 
29.41 An Open Topped AFV attacking an unpinned man would be immediately eliminated if it drew a 
red 5 as its Overrun attack resolution RNC, and immobilized if it drew a red 6. 
29.42 Any other AFV attacking an unpinned man would be immediately immobilized if it drew a red 6 as 
its Overrun attack resolution RNC. Note that a Hero card could be played immediately prior to an 
Overrun attack to rally a pinned man and also qualify a red 4 [10.44], red 5, or red 6 RNC for 
immobilization or elimination of an OT AFV (or a red 5 or red 6 for immobilization of other AFV's) during 
its attack on that man. 
29.43 An AFV making an Overrun attack against a group in a Gully, Woods, Stream, or on Wire is 
subject to Bog as per [28.53] and must check for Bog before resolving any Overrun attack. 
29.44 An AFV which is immobilized, Bogged, or eliminated during its Overrun attack may not resolve 
attacks against any remaining defenders during that turn. 
29.45 An Overrunning AFV which is immobilized or Bogged during an Overrun attack is not necessarily 
considered in the defender's terrain. It is considered in the last terrain occupied by its own group. (Note 
that if its last two Terrain/Movement cards played were both Movement cards, it would be considered in 
Open Ground.) Even though an AFV may be Bogged due to making an Overrun attack against 
defenders in a Gully, Woods, or Stream and has to free itself from Bog normally [28.53], it is not 
necessarily in that terrain and therefore is not affected by it. 
29.46 Even if a group is in the act of movement, it is still considered at least partially in the terrain of the 
last played Terrain card unless it has since played two movement cards (in which case it is in Open 
Ground). For example, an AFV making an Overrun attack against a moving group which has played a 
Movement card over a Woods card would be susceptible to the adverse results of [29.41]-[29.43]. 
29.5 An AFV which has made an Overrun attack (barring immobilization or Bog) remains in the act of 
movement after the attack resolution until a Terrain card is played on it in a subsequent turn. To make 
another Overrun attack, it must play another sideways Movement card, even if it is already "moving". 
However, in a subsequent turn after having made an Overrun attack, it may play another Movement 
card in the Advance or Retreat mode instead and change its range number accordingly -- even to the 
extent of moving through a blocking, directly opposite group it has just Overrun. Note that even though 
an AFV may have just overrun an adjacent group, it may never move through an adjacent enemy group; 
i.e. the AFV automatically returns to the relative position on the table marked by its group ID number. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
29.5 After an AFV has overrun an opposite group and then moves through it, could it then play a sideways 
movement card to encircle it if there is a friendly adjacent group?   
A. No, rule 20.5, last sentence 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
29.6 An overrunning AFV must attack all of the targets in the defending group if it remains capable of 
doing so. 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario E. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario E until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.]  
 
30. LIGHT ANTI-TANK WEAPONS  
30.1 Bazookas, Panzerschrecks, Anti-Tank Rifles, and Panzerfausts are infantry 
ordnance weapons with anti-armor capabilities. The Bazooka, Anti-Tank Rifle, and 
Panzerschreck weapons are listed as the primary weapons of certain Personality cards. 
The Panzerfaust is a Secondary Weapon [21.1] which must be carried in the form of a 
Panzerfaust chit on the Personality card of the man carrying it. They cannot be fired 
together with other weapons in their group, nor can they be fired while moving. 
30.2 CREWED WEAPONS: Bazookas and Panzerschrecks are crew-served weapons. 
If an assigned, unpinned assistant crewman is not present the weapon must use the 
bracketed To Hit frequency [11.1] when it fires and is more subject to malfunction [19.15]. Bazookas and 
Panzerschrecks may be used against any kind of target -- using respective basic Effect Numbers for 
armored and non-armored targets. 
30.3 PANZERFAUST: A Panzerfaust can only be fired against an AFV target and only 
against the Armor defence value. It can be fired only once. Regardless of the outcome, the 
Panzerfaust chit is removed from play after its first To Hit attempt. 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
30.3 Do you need a fire card to fire a PanzerFaust? 
A: Yes.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
30.4 MALFUNCTION: Like all ordnance weapons, a Bazooka or Panzerschreck malfunctions only as a 
result of its To Hit RNC draw [25.5]; not during the separate resolution of a hit against individual targets. 
However, unlike other ordnance weapons, a Bazooka or Panzerschreck malfunctions on a red 4, red 5, 
or red 6 To Hit RNC. A Panzerfaust does not malfunction.

--- PAGE 56 ---
56 
30.5 Note that only the Anti-Tank Rifle uses AP ammunition, and consequently, the Hit Strength of the 
other weapons is determined by adding the To Hit Random Number on the RNC just drawn to the Effect 
Number listed on the ordnance. Unlike IG/AFV ordnance, range is not a factor in determining the Hit 
Strength [25.4] of these weapons. 
30.6 ANTI-TANK RIFLE: An Anti-Tank Rifle (ATR) may be used against either 
armored or infantry targets. If used against an AFV, it is fired as an ordnance weapon. 
If used against infantry it need not gain a hit; it merely adds one firepower factor to the 
attacking group's total firepower. An ATR has limited penetration capabilities. To be 
effective vs. armor, it must not only hit the AFV, but it must hit it in a vulnerable area 
as well to even be considered a "hit". Therefore, the To Hit Numbers of an ATR reflect 
the difficulty of obtaining effective hits vs. an AFV. Once an ATR obtains a hit vs. an 
AFV, the effect of that AFV is equal to the Relative Range at which it is obtained plus 
the draw of a RNC (adding black numbers, subtracting red numbers). Unlike all other 
ordnance weapons, an ATR improves its To Hit Frequency by one whenever it is entitled to Flanking 
Fire. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
30.6 Is the rulebook correct in that an ATR IMPROVES its To Hit Frequency when it has Flanking Fire privileges? 
A. Yes. Note the "-1 Flanking Fire To Hit Modifier" noted on the ATR cards actually improves the To Hit # since a 
To Hit # of 1 is easier to hit than a To Hit # of 2. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 
31. ANTI-TANK MAGNETIC MINES  
 
31.1 An Anti-Tank Magnetic Mine (hereafter referred to as ATMM) is a Secondary Weapon 
which is usable only against an AFV. It was used primarily by the Russians from 1944 on to 
compensate for their lack of an effective light anti-tank weapon (such as the Bazooka). 
Germans may use ATMM's, but U.S. forces cannot. See DYO values [43.0] for purchase 
price. 
31.2 An ATMM is usable only in CC against an AFV or by an unpinned defender being overrun.  
31.21 CLOSE COMBAT: A man with an ATMM which is attacking an AFV in CC may add 4 to his CCV 
[28.81]. Regardless of the outcome of the attack, the attacker loses his ATMM. 
31.22 Vs OVERRUN: An unpinned defender with an ATMM may possibly destroy or immobilize its 
attacker if that AFV draws a red RNC and fails to pin or eliminate the defender during the Overrun. Note 
that a Hero card could be played to unpin a defender (even one pinned by the Overrun attack), and thus 
make him eligible to attack with his ATMM. The unpinned defender with an ATMM then immediately 
draws another RNC. If that RNC is black, the defender checks the proper RPC column of that RNC for 
the Overrunning AFV ("2b" for a Buttoned Up AFV, "4c" for a CE AFV, or "5o" for an OT AFV). If that 
RPC is red the vehicle has been eliminated or immobilized. The "0r" column of the same RNC is then 
checked; if the "0r" RPC is 1-5 the AFV is immobilized, if 6-0 the AFV is eliminated. An ATMM is not 
considered used during an Overrun attack unless the AFV is immobilized or eliminated. 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario F. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario F until you are familiar with the rules presented thus far.]  
 
32. PRISONERS 
 
32.1 Prisoners are worth five Victory Points and can be taken in one of two ways.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
32, 16.5, 50.41, Broken Squad, Prisoners, and Surrender 
Prisoners DO count as casualties toward the calculation of a Broken Squad. 
Groups which have surrendered but have not been captured do not count as casualties toward the calculation of a 
Broken Squad. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
32.11 CLOSE COMBAT: A player may capture a prisoner by willingly deducting two from his CCV prior 
to the resolution of any CC attack. If he wins the CC, the defeated man is taken prisoner by his captor. A 
man who has taken a prisoner automatically loses his infiltration status. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
32.11 This rule states "A player may capture a prisoner by willingly deducting two from his CCV prior to the 
resolution of any CC attack." Nowhere does it state when to make the decision to attempt a capture. Does this 
mean that you can wait until you see the odds and then decide to make take prisoners? If you have 2 on 1, can you 
try to take the man prisoner, but if you lose, change to normal CC when attacking 1 on 1? 
A. No! Declarations to attempt to capture prisoners must be made when calculating CC values! That commitment 
remains throughout the Close Combat. If soldiers A and B attempt to capture enemy soldier Z in Close Combat

--- PAGE 57 ---
57 
and soldier A is killed in the first round, a second round is immediately fought, with B attempting to capture 
soldier Z. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
32.12 ROUT: Any man at Relative Range 5 to an infantry group who Panics and is to be removed by 
Rout ("0r" of the RPC > Panic Value; [6.531]) surrenders instead to an enemy group at Relative Range 
5 (captor's choice if more than one such group is available). Prisoners can be declined by the captor 
prior to their capture in favour of a Rout result, but not afterwards. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
32.12, also10.1. CLARIFICATION: In order to be eligible to capture prisoners through the Rout method (32.12) 
the capturing group must contain at least one unpinned personality card. 
32.12  & 16.42 By capturing a man and bringing him into a group, and then stopping in suitable terrain, does the 
attacker satisfy the Relative Range 5 requirement of the Victory Conditions, if, in so doing, it eliminates the only 
Relative Range 5 enemy group? 
A. Yes. Note, this rule is in effect to prevent a player from routing men to avoid victory by the opponent. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
32.2 GUARD: Prisoners, once taken, are placed beneath the card of any one man in the 
capturing group of the capturing player's choice. That man may be pinned, wounded, or 
even unarmed but he may not be the designated assistant crewman for any weapon. If the 
designated assistant crewman is the only possible choice, he is relived of his assistant 
crewman duties automatically. If the man chosen as the guard is subsequently eliminated, the prisoner(s) 
is merely placed beneath another man in the same group without counting as an Action. One man may 
guard any number of prisoners. A player may change guards automatically as the sole Action of a group 
for that turn provided the new guard is not currently pinned.  
32.21 A guard has his firepower and CCV halved (fractions rounded down) for the duration of the 
scenario and cannot attempt to infiltrate. If the guard has an ordnance weapon, he must reduce its To 
Hit frequency by one. 
32.22 Prisoners are not freed unless every man in the capturing group is eliminated. Freed prisoners 
take no further part in the game and are removed from play, but do deprive their prior captor of any 
Victory Points for their capture, rout, or elimination. Prisoners automatically accompany their guard in 
any individual transfer he makes. Prisoners do not check for combat results and therefore cannot 
become pinned, wounded, or killed. 
32.3 AFV's and IG's can neither take nor become prisoners.  
 
33. WOUNDS  
[As may well be imagined, the majority of wounds inflicted in combat are extensive enough 
to effectively remove the recipient from further consideration for game purposes. Such 
injuries are generally lumped into the KIA or Rout category and serve to remove the man 
from play. However, a small percentage of wounds inflicted in combat are not totally 
incapacitating and allow a man to continue fighting, albeit at reduced effectiveness. The scales of many 
a firefight have been tipped by the contributions of a wounded soldier who refused to quit.]  
33.1 OCCURRENCE: Wounds lacking in the severity required to be considered an outright KIA may 
possibly occur anytime an infantryman Routs, or would otherwise be eliminated by a KIA result which 
occurred as a result of a RNC generating a final attack strength exactly equal to the lowest number 
required for a KIA. That result is treated as a Wound instead, if the Random Position Number of that 
RNC under the "7w" column is equal to the man's printed Morale value. Place a Wound chit on the man, 
but leave him in the same mode he was prior to the infliction of the Wound (pinned or normal). Wounds 
do not occur in CC.  
[EX: Cpl Jones has a Morale value of 4 and a Panic Value of 6. An attack generating a KIA against him 
could possibly be commuted to a Wound result instead only if the final attack result was an 8 while he 
was in good order, or a 6, 7, 8, or 9 while he was pinned. Assuming this was the case, a 4 Random 
Position Number under the 7w column of the RNC used to determine the final attack result would cause 
a Wound instead of a KIA.]  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
33.1 Can a man be wounded while voluntarily routing? 
A. No, but he can be killed. See rule 6.53. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
33.1 & 14.3   Can a man be wounded as a result of a sniper attack? If yes, would column "7w" of the RNC used to 
resolve the Sniper Attack be checked -anytime- a man is removed due to the attack? 
A. Yes. No, a P2-3/K4-6 sniper that affected a pinned man would check for a wound on a RNC draw of 2-3 if the 
man routed or on an RNC of 4. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
33.1 also 6.53. The rule states a wound can occur when a man routs or when a KIA result occurs with an RNC that 
exactly matches the minimum KIA value. Take as an example PFC Fox, who has a Morale of 4 and a Panic of 5. 
Assume Fox is pinned, and an attack occurs with a Final Combat Resolution Number that equals 7. The card also

--- PAGE 58 ---
58 
has a "4" under the "7w" column and the card also has a "3" under the "0r" column, which under rule 6.53 means 
he is removed from play by Panic. What is the status of PFC Fox? 
A. PFC Fox is eliminated due to Panic, and is worth 2 victory points to his opponent. The wording of the rules take 
special care here, much like weapon malfunction. To summarize for a PC to be wounded: 
While on his good order, the Final Combat Resolution Number must equal his KIA value for there to be the 
possibility of a wound. 
While Pinned, a Final Combat Resolution Number exactly equal to the KIA value (generally 9) always yields a 
possible wound. 
If the Final Combat Resolution is greater than or equal to the man's Panic value, but less than his KIA value there 
is also a possibility of a wound. However, the 0r column of the card must first be checked to determine if the man 
panics or routs. Only if the man Routs is there the possibility of a wound. Panic is only equivalent to a KIA for 
specific purposes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............ 
33.11 CE AFV and IG crews are not eligible for Wound results. 
33.2 FIREPOWER EFFECTS: The firepower of a wounded man is halved (fractions rounded down) 
individually. If the man's primary weapon is ordnance, he must deduct one from the To Hit frequency of 
that weapon instead. A wounded man may never engage in Moving Fire, although his weapon is subject 
to malfunction during Moving Fire from his group [19.14]. 
33.3 CREWED WEAPONS: A wounded man may be a designated assistant crewman to a crewed 
weapon with no detrimental effects to that weapon's performance. An unpinned, wounded man who is 
the principal operator of a crewed weapon may exchange weapons with his unpinned assistant 
crewman as the sole action of that group for that turn [11.13]. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
33.3 & 18.21 To clarify these two rules:   
A pinned man can never be involved in a weapon exchange. 
Weapon exchanges of primary weapons must involve at least one wounded man.   
Weapon exchanges of secondary weapons need not involve a wounded man.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
33.4 REPAIR: A wounded man must draw a black RNC before attempting to repair a malfunctioning 
weapon. If he draws a red RNC, he may not attempt repairs that turn but has still used his sole action for 
that group for that turn. 
33.5 CCV: A wounded man may not attempt to infiltrate, but if already an infiltrator he may attempt to 
enter CC. A wounded man's CCV is equal to his Pinned CCV while in good order, or equal to his Pinned 
& Unarmed CCV while pinned. If a wounded man is both pinned and unarmed, he is automatically 
defeated in any CC in which he is defending alone. A wounded man does not add the +3 CCV modifier 
for additional men to any man he defends or attacks with in CC. 
33.6 PORTAGE: A wounded man may not carry both a primary and secondary weapon; he must 
abandon one or the other. The abandoned weapon is subject to normal acquisition rules. 
33.7 ENDURANCE: The debilitating effects of even a relatively minor unattended wound will increase 
with the passage of time. Therefore, during his first turn at the start of each new deck a RNC must be 
drawn for each wounded man. If the RNC is red, that man is no longer capable of game actions and is 
removed from play as a KIA. The player may play a Hero card immediately prior to the RNC draw to 
exempt a man from this draw requirement for that deck. A wounded man who is wounded again is 
considered KIA unless a Hero card is played immediately. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
33.7 Exactly when during the turn do you check for wounded? At the end? At the start?  
A. The first card of the first full turn of a new deck. 
Also, if you deplete the deck during the turn of a player with a wounded man, do you check that turn or the next? 
A. Next turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
33.8 VICTORY POINTS: A wounded man who survives the scenario (even if he routs) is worth one 
Victory Point to the opposing player; two Victory Points if subsequently removed as a KIA. 
33.9 HERO: All of the above effects can be suspended for one player turn by play of a Hero card. Note 
that play of one Hero card could temporarily cancel Wound effects [33.2]-[33.7] for one turn, while 
simultaneous play of the other Hero card could also give that man additional heroic capabilities [10.41]-
[10.45], [28.81]. 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario G. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario G until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.]

--- PAGE 59 ---
59 
34. INFANTRY GUNS  
 
34.1 An Infantry Gun (hereafter referred to as IG) is a form of Personality card 
representing an ordnance weapon and its entire multi-man crew. The inherent crew of 
an IG is inseparable from the weapon and shares its fate. Other personalities may not 
man an IG, nor may its crew acquire and use other weapons. 
34.2 An IG may form its own group or combine with other Personality cards to form a 
group. In either case, the IG always occupies just one position within that group 
despite the multi-man nature of its inherent crew. 
34.3 MOVEMENT: A group containing an IG which is presently occupying any terrain 
other than Open Ground must play two Movement cards (one per turn), the first of which must be played 
in a sideways mode, before it is eligible to move into new terrain of its own choosing and/or change its 
range number. A player may always discard a Terrain card on an opposing IG even though it has only 
one Movement card currently in play.  
34.31 A group containing an IG which is presently occupying Open Ground may move to new terrain 
after playing one Movement card, unless the terrain moved into is a Hill. Moving an IG onto a Hill always 
requires at least two Movement cards (the first being played in a sideways mode) regardless of the 
Terrain card last occupied. 
34.32 A group containing an IG may never enter (or start in) Marsh. 
34.33 An IG may not fire while moving. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
34 & 25.1 How does an Infantry Gun repair? 
A. An IG is ordnance. Therefore, it repairs normally (19.3) using the Repair values on the "Malfunction 
Ordnance" marker; i.e. black 0-6 for Repair, and red 6 for Remove.  
34 If an IG malfunctions and then becomes inoperative, is the IG card still in play? 
A. Yes. 
If so, can it still move normally? 
A. Yes, but note rules 34.2 and 34.7 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
34.4 An IG is equipped with an armored gun shield and therefore has two KIA and Morale defence 
values. The boxed KIA defence values are used only when the IG is attacked solely by ordnance using 
its unboxed Effect Number, or by Flanking Fire of any kind, or by infantry at Relative Range 5 using its 
inherent boxed firepower, or by an ATR firing as ordnance. The unboxed value is used to defend against 
all other attacks.  
[EX: An unpinned German IG being attacked at Relative Range 4 by three riflemen would require a final 
Result Number of 9 or more to eliminate the IG, or 5 or more to Pin the crew. However, if those same 
riflemen were attacking at Relative Range 5 with a Fire card requiring 3 or less firepower, they could use 
their inherent anti-armor firepower for a free second attack with another RNC [28.7] against the IG in 
which a final result of 7 or more would eliminate the IG, and a final result of 3 or more would pin it.] 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........
34.4 CLARIFICATION: 
An AFV with both a boxed and unboxed attack value may only attack the IG with its unboxed attack value (per 
25.42) and, thus, the IG defends against such an attack with its boxed KIA defense values. 
Mortars and Artillery affect an IG's boxed defense values. 
IG's attack other IG's per 25.42 and 34.4. 
Ordnance without an unboxed effect number, and not meeting the conditions of 34.4 is resolved per 44.6. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
34.5 CONCEALMENT: A Concealed card does not modify any attack (including CC) against an IG 
unless the IG has neither fired nor moved during the game. Otherwise, an attack on an IG is resolved 
normally with standard modifications to the attack Fire Strength [6.4]. A Concealed card can be played 
for a group containing both infantry and an IG which has fired or moved, but it will lower the Fire 
Strength of the attack vs. the infantry only; it will not lower the Fire Strength of the attack resolution vs. 
the IG. A Concealed card can never be played for a group containing an IG against an ordnance To Hit 
attempt unless that IG has neither fired nor moved during the game. 
34.6 PINNED: A Pinned IG may neither move nor fire. A Pinned IG requires a "Rally 3" (or better) card 
to return the IG to its unpinned status (even if the IG is no longer fully manned; [34.71]). Hero, Rally 1 
and Rally 2 cards can be played as a partial credit towards eventual Rally. 
34.7 CLOSE COMBAT: An IG cannot infiltrate or go berserk. If attacked in CC, it defends with a three 
man crew as per [20.71]. [NOTE: Although gun crews often consisted of more than three men, we will 
use three as the standard number for all game effects.] The CCV of each crewman, in turn, is equal to 
the IG's Morale value if unpinned, and 4 less than its Morale value if pinned. All three crewmen are 
considered equal operators of the gun.  
34.71 Should one crew member of an IG be killed in CC (or by a Sniper), the IG card is marked with a 
Commander Killed [28.431] chit and suffers the To Hit penalties for that status. If a second crew

--- PAGE 60 ---
60 
member is killed, the Commander Killed chit is flipped to the 2 Crew Killed side and its future To Hit 
attempts will suffer a reduction of 2 in its To Hit frequency. The IG is eliminated entirely only if all three 
inherent crew members are killed or panic. 
 
35. REINFORCEMENTS 
 
35.1 Reinforcements are available only when so specified by the scenario and must enter play as Group 
E (EXC: see Team Game; [41.5]). The scenario will specify both the forces which compose the 
reinforcements and the time period which must elapse before they are available. The time elapsed is 
always expressed in terms of the number of times the Draw pile has been emptied and reshuffled. In 
DYO scenarios, reinforcements are available for a discounted purchase price depending on the time 
elapsed before their availability. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
35 When reinforcements or random reinforcements include an ASL, and there is already an ASL in play, does this 
new ASL function as an "auxiliary" ASL, in case of the loss of the original SL or ASL? 
A. Yes. 
35 Reinforcements usually come in at Range number 0. If an enemy group has advanced to Range number 6, and 
has an opposing group in front of it, this creates a situation very similar to natural flanking fire and/or 
encirclement. Are reinforcements, entering in a sideways mode (and without the Flanking Movement card 
mentioned in 35.3) at Range 0 and BEHIND an adjacent group A or E, entitled to Flanking and/or Encirclement 
advantages? 
A. Flanking, yes; Encirclement, no. Encirclement, however, may occur in a future turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
35.2 Once the Draw pile has been emptied and reformed enough times to make reinforcements 
available, they may enter the game as one separate group anytime during their player turn by playing a 
Movement card. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
35.2 Is the movement card played in a sideways mode or into the discard pile? 
A. Into the discard pile. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
35.3 A reinforcement group must appear at range number 0 unless it enters by playing a Flank 
Movement card. If a Flank Movement card is played, the reinforcing group may appear at any range 
number up to and including the highest range number in play by that player at the start of the current 
turn. This might entitle the group to Flanking Fire status if the other requisites of Flanking Fire are met. 
35.4 Reinforcements always enter play in Open Ground unless the owner simultaneously plays a 
Movement, Concealed, and Terrain card. The Terrain card is placed on the group, and the Movement 
and Concealed cards are placed in the Discard tray (regardless of nationality discard limits). This is the 
only instance in which a player can play both a Terrain and Movement card on the same group in the 
same turn. When using this option, a player may take no other action or discard any other card during 
his player turn. 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario H. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario H until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.] 
 
36. ENTRENCHMENTS 
 
36.1 An infantry group may attempt to entrench as its sole action for that player turn 
provided it is not moving and contains no pinned men, Wire, or friendly infiltrators. An 
entrenchment attempt is successfully resolved by drawing a "0" RNC of any colour, and 
placing an Entrenchment chit on the group's Terrain card. Any other RNC is treated as no 
result although the attempt still counts as that group's sole action for that turn. No group may 
have more than one entrenchment at any one time. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
36 A group is entrenched in Brush for a total TEM of -2. Wire is discarded on the group. The Entrenchment Chit 
says "NA if pinned or in Wire." What is the TEM for the Group? 
A. The TEM of the Group is -1. Brush is -1, Entrenched is -1, Wire is +1. The statement on the back of the 
entrenchment chit means not allowed (to entrench) if pinned or in wire, per the first sentence of 36.1. 36.2 
specifies the conditions for removal of the Entrenchment chit. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
36.2 An entrenchment entitles its group to deduct one from the Fire Strength of attacks against it in 
addition to the terrain effects of the Terrain card it currently occupies. Entrenchments are immediately 
removed whenever their group plays a Movement card for any purpose other than removing Wire. 
Movement cards played for Transfer or Infiltration attempts by individual men do not remove

--- PAGE 61 ---
61 
entrenchments from their group, but neither infiltrators nor individual transfers receive the -1 TEM 
benefit of that entrenchment when their group is attacked. 
36.3 Entrenchments can be placed only in Open Ground, Hill, Woods, or Brush. 
36.4 An AFV or IG cannot occupy an entrenchment. However, a group with both an IG and infantry may 
still entrench, but the -1 TEM applies only to the infantry in the group, not the IG. 
36.5 RUSSIAN USAGE: Although it is an action, a Russian entrenchment attempt does not prohibit the 
Russian from discarding during that turn, although it does reduce his maximum discard capability for 
that turn by one for each group which makes an entrenchment attempt. 
 
37. PARTISANS  
 
37.1 Partisans are available to the Russian, Italian and French player and only at special cost in DYO 
scenarios [43.0] or when specified by the scenario in play. Partisans may never take as many actions 
per turn as they have groups in the game (down to a minimum of one) and may never be equipped with 
an IG or AFV. All partisans have their Panic value (but not their Rout value) reduced by one. A partisan 
force can never include more than one leader in any scenario. Otherwise, partisans have all the 
capabilities of regular troops as well as some special capabilities. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
37.1 & 43.5 Can Partisans be considered Elite? 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
37.2 CONCEALMENT: Partisans may add one to the strength of any Concealed card they play solely 
for Concealment or CC purposes; a -1 becomes a -2, a -2 becomes a -3, etc. 
37.3 MOVEMENT: All Movement cards played sideways by the partisan player are assumed to have 
automatic Ford capability. Partisans may also exit a Marsh card after playing only one sideways 
Movement card. 
37.4 SNIPERS: A partisan player does not lose his ability to play Sniper cards until after the German 
has made two successful Sniper checks; each after different Sniper attacks. 
37.5 AMBUSH: Provided both the target and firing groups contain no already pinned men and the firing 
group is stationary in Woods or Brush terrain, the partisan player may add the strength of any 
Concealed card he plays to his attack. Note: this is the actual printed strength; not the increased 
strength of [37.2]. In this case the negative status of the Concealed card is ignored. Note that playing a 
Hero card to rally the only pinned man in a group after the declaration of an attack but prior to its 
resolution does not make that attack subject to ambush rules, although a subsequent attack may be.  
[EX: An Ambush attack using a Fire 3 card and a Concealed -1 card would be 
equal to a Fire 4 card.] 
37.6 BOOBY TRAPS: A partisan player may play a Booby trap card (in the way 
Minefield is used) except that it only attacks one man and only when it is discarded 
on a moving group [24.31]. Immediately after resolving its attack, the Booby trap 
card is removed from play -- it does not count as a Terrain card.  
[EX: When you play the “Partisan” scenario, replace the Minefiled cards with the 
Booby trap cards) 
 
 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario I. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario I until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.] 
 
38. NIGHT  
 
38.1 Smoke has no effect during a Night scenario even for those groups illuminated by a star shell. 
38.2 OBSERVATION: In order for a group to attack or infiltrate at night, it must first "detect" 
the target group. Each group may attempt to detect only one specific opposing group. If 
successful, it may then fire on that group or take any other action it could normally take in a 
daylight scenario. If unsuccessful, it may not take any other action including CC during that 
turn. An observation attempt counts as an Action taken only if fails to detect an enemy group. Note that 
a group in a Gully could not attempt observation unless it were at Relative Range 5, sighting for a mortar, 
or attempting to sight a group on a Hill (and vice versa as regards sighting a group in a Gully).  
38.21 Observation attempts are strictly voluntary. A group may wish not to attempt observation so that it 
can be assured of performing some action other than attacking. The effects of observation are for that 
turn only. 
38.22 Observation of an opposing group does no good to any group other than the observing group (i.e. 
observation of Red Group A by Black Group A does not entitle Black Group B to fire at Red Group A).

--- PAGE 62 ---
62 
38.3 OBSERVATION RESOLUTION: For a group to observe an enemy group at night, the player must 
draw a RNC (ignoring colours) < the current Relative Range between the groups. (To observe a group 
at Relative Range 0, a "1" must be drawn [25.6]. For purposes of observation only, the current Relative 
Range is modified by +1 for each of the following circumstances:  
1.) Each Movement card of the observed group currently in play;  
2.) The observed group is an AFV;  
3.) The observed group has already been fired on during that player turn by another group;  
4.) The observed group fired (not in CC) in its last player turn. 
38.31 For purposes of observation, the current Relative Range is modified by -1 if the observing group is 
a Buttoned Up AFV. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
38.3 & 38.5 Does a Group whose SL fired a starshell qualify as "Fired Last Turn"?  
A. No. 
38.3 If you play a fire card on a group at night, and after seeing the final modified Fire Strength of the attack 
decide not to fire, is the target group considered "fired on" to get the +1 modification for the purposes of an 
Observation Attempt? 
A. No, you decided not to fire! 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
38.4 NIGHT FIRE EFFECTS: The Fire Strength of all Fire cards played at night for infantry attacks are 
halved (fractions rounded down). Note that this does not apply to attacks by ordnance, Minefields, 
Snipers, or Demolition Charges. Ordnance attacks at night reduce their To Hit frequency by 1 at all 
ranges.  
38.41 The Fire Strength of a Night attack using Moving Fire [12.1] would be halved twice, rounding 
fractions down before the second halving occurs. Moving ordnance Night attacks would require black 
RNC's for a hit and would have to deduct one from their To Hit frequency as well. 
 
38.5 STARSHELLS: An unpinned Squad Leader (not an ASL or AFV) whose 
group has just detected a target group at night at Relative Range 1-5 may place a 
starshell "1" chit on that group as his group's sole-allowed action for that player 
turn. At the end of the observed player's turn, he must flip the starshell 1 chit over 
to the reverse side. Following the observed player's next turn, the starshell "2" chit must be removed. A 
starshell cannot be placed on any currently illuminated group; placement of a starshell must be 
preceded by a successful observation attempt.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
38.5 For starshell purposes, can the ASL take over the SL starshell capability when the SL has routed or is KIA? 
A. No. 
38.5 Starshells are stationary. If a Group has a Starshell placed on it, and the Group moves forward or backward, 
it is not illuminated by that Starshell. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
38.51 A starshell illuminates all enemy groups at Relative Range 5 to the detected group, and any 
adjacent friendly groups at the same range number as the detected group. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
38.51 If a group that has a starshell on them plays a movement card and increases its range number, what 
becomes of the starshell? What happens if a group has a starshell on them makes a lateral group transfer under 
the same circumstances? 
A. In both cases the Starshell stays at the former range number and is marked with its own range number. The 
group is still illuminated by it as are any other groups adjacent and at the same range as the starshell. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
38.52 Observation attempts and Night Fire Effects do not apply to groups illuminated by a starshell. 
 
A[3] 
B[3]  
C[1] 
A[1] 
B[2] 
C[0] 
 
[In the example above, Black Group B has placed a starshell on Red Group B. Black Group B and Red 
Groups A & B are all illuminated by the starshell.] 
 
38.6 INFILTRATION: If an attacker attempts to infiltrate during a night scenario [20.31], a shift of three 
columns to the left on the RPC is made to check the infiltration status, unless the group to be infiltrated 
is currently illuminated by a starshell. 
38.7 Observation is not necessary to make a Sniper or Minefield attack, or to place Terrain cards on an 
opponent's moving group. However, observation of a group at the proper range is necessary for 
Retrograde.

--- PAGE 63 ---
63 
 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
38.7 What is meant by "observation being necessary for retrograde"? 
A. It means a group cannot perform Retrograde (5.51) unless it has observed an enemy which satisfies the 
conditions to allow it to Retrograde. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario J. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario J until you feel comfortable with all the rules presented thus far.] 
 
39. TROOP TYPES 
 
 [The rules of the game presented thus far have been for simulating small unit actions between average 
forces of the major powers. These "average" forces are referred to as "Line" troops. However, every 
nation had both higher and lower grades of troops which saw action during various points in the war. 
Just as Partisans provided an interesting change of pace from Russian regulars, you may find it 
interesting to simulate the actions of these "elite" or "second line" units with their varying capabilities. 
The size of each nationality's card hand and discard capability is unchanged from the basic game 
except as modified below.]  
39.1a CONSCRIPTS: Conscripts are Russian second line troops. Conscripts have a maximum discard 
capability of two per turn. Conscripts could make one entrenchment attempt and still discard one card. 
39.1b GUARDS: Guards are Russian elite troops. Guards may take one action and still discard up to 
two cards. Guards could take one Action, plus an entrenchment attempt, and still discard one card. 
39.2a GREEN: Green troops are U.S. second line troops. Green troops have a maximum discard 
capability of one card per turn, and only in those turns in which they take no other actions. 
39.2b PARATROOPS: Paratroops are U.S. elite troops. Paratroops may take one action and still discard 
one card, or take no action and discard two cards. In addition, Paratroops always have an inherent 
firepower of 1 at Relative Range 5 even if unarmed, but may use this firepower only in conjunction with 
a Fire card with a black RNC. 
39.2c MARINES are only used in jungle scenarios against the Japanese [46.1]. They are considered a 
semi-elite force in that they must start each scenario with a minimum morale value of 2. If a scenario 
using Marines lists a man with a Morale value of 1, it is considered a "2 Morale" and "3 Panic" 
personality card. Marines have the same card hand capacity, discard capability, and other 
characteristics as American line troops 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
39.2b Do paratroops get the +1 firepower if multiple Fire cards are used, some of which have red RNC's? 
A. No. Note the 1 firepower is for unarmed paratroops only. It is not an additional 1 firepower for armed 
paratroops. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
39.3a VOLKSGRENADIERS: Volksgrenadiers are German second line troops. Volksgrenadiers must 
reveal their discards. A Volksgrenadier can discard a Cower card only if has taken no actions during that 
turn. 
39.3b SS: SS are German elite troops. An SS player may discard up to two cards, but only if he has 
taken one or less actions during his turn. 
39.4a: SNLF are Japanese second line troops. Special Naval Landing Force troops may not play 
Movement cards without counting them as an action. 
39.4b: SAMURAI are Japanese elite troops. Samurai may take one action and still discard up to two 
cards (plus any free Cower card discard function). 
39.5a: AIRBORNE are British Elite Troops. Airborne may take one action and still discard one card, or 
take no actions and still discard two cards. 
39.5b: HOME GUARDS are British Second Line troops. Home Guard troops have a maximum discard 
capability of one per turn, and only in thos turns in which they take no action. 
39.6a: BERSAGLIERI are Italian Elite troops. Bersaglieri may use German Split Action cards and are 
not subject to special Italian surrender provisions. 
39.6b: BLACKSHIRTS are Italian Second Line troops. Blackshirts may discard only one card per turn 
and only if they take no action in that turn. 
39.7a: LEGIONAIRES are French Elite Troops. Legionaires may take one action per turn and still 
discard one card per turn. 
39.7b: RESERVISTS are French Second Line Troops. Reservists must treat all Split Action cards as 
Cower cards.

--- PAGE 64 ---
64 
39.8: In DYO scenarios, elite forces must have a minimum Morale value of 2; second line troops have a 
maximum Morale value of 4. A side in any scenario must be composed entirely of the same type of 
troops. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
39.8 The Morale values of Japanese troops and many nationalities' armor units conflit with the conditions of 39.8. 
How can this be resolved for DYO purposes? 
A. DYO pushes many game systems to their design limits and Up Front is no exception. Where armor is concerned, 
comply with teh DYO point cost modifications, and ignore the Morale value contradictions - vehicles retain their 
printed Morale values (this is in keeping with the designer's stated rationale behind the performance of armor 
crews in the Designer's Notes). 
As for troops, when using "Second Line" forces, limit your SL and ASL purchases to the lowest Morale 
representatives available for that nationality which will comply with the DYO restrictions. Likewise, "Elites" 
should also be limited to the highest-Morale leaders for that nationality, while complying with DYO restrictions. 
Thus, the Japanese may only use Sgt. Kodu (#21) for "Second Line" DYO forces; the Italians must use Sgt. Capone 
(#21) for "Elites". Use of either nation's available Corporals for ASLs is unaffected. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario K. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario K until you comfortable will the game rules presented thus far.] 
 
40. ARTILLERY  
 
40.1 Artillery support is available to a side only if it has a functioning radio carried by an unpinned man 
in the same group with an unpinned SL, ASL, or Commissar. The leader does not have to carry the 
radio. 
40.2 FIRE MISSION: In order to use his radio to call in artillery support, the player must play a Radio 
card as his sole action for that group for that turn. No Fire card is used. The player seeking artillery 
support then draws a RNC. If the RNC is black, his Fire Mission is accepted and he may attack the 
target group of his choice (even those out of his LOS) with a basic Attack Strength of 5 prior to 
modification for defender's terrain and movement status. If the RNC is red, his Fire Mission is either not 
accepted or inaccurately placed and no attack takes place. The defender may play a Concealed card 
prior to the RNC draw to reduce the Fire Mission's chances of effective placement. A Concealed -1 card 
would reduce the frequency of effective placement RNC's to Black 1-6; a Concealed -2 card would 
reduce it to a Black 2-6, and a Concealed -3 card would reduce it to a Black 3-6. Regardless of the 
outcome, the group is charged with an Action taken, and the Radio card is placed in the Discard pile.  
40.21 A Fire Mission is resolved in the same way as an ordnance attack except there is no To Hit 
process (other than the placement RNC described in [40.2]) and therefore no play of Concealed cards to 
aid the defender. In addition, there is no modification of the attack strength due to Relative Range or the 
non-existent To Hit RNC draw. The 5 Attack Strength is modified only by the defender's terrain (EXC: 
Woods) and movement status, and the individual RNC (subtracting red RNC's, adding black RNC's) 
drawn to resolve the attack on each man in the target group. 
40.22 Vs AFV's: Artillery attacks only the non-armored defence values of an AFV because artillery is not 
a boxed weapon. However, if the artillery draws a black 6 RNC to resolve its attack on that AFV (black 5 
or black 6 if the AFV is OT), it has scored a Critical Hit on that AFV instead of affecting the non-armored 
defence values of that AFV. A Critical Hit achieved with a black 6 RNC immobilizes the target AFV; a 
Critical Hit achieved with a black 5 RNC destroys an OT AFV. 
 
40.3 RADIO: A radio chit is considered a Secondary Weapon for all purposes. A Radio card 
cannot be used as a Rally card during any turn in which it is used for the Radio. 
40.4 MALFUNCTION: A radio malfunctions on a red 5 or red 6 RNC when drawing for 
placement of his Fire Mission or in communication with another scenario sector in a Team 
Game [41.7]. It is repaired or permanently eliminated in the same manner as all other weapons. 
40.5 In DYO scenarios, players have the option of purchasing larger calibre artillery support with a 
greater attack strength. 
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario L. Before proceeding further, we suggest 
you play Scenario L until you are comfortable with the rules presented thus far.] 
 
41. TEAM PLAY  
 
41.1 UP FRONT can be played between teams of two or more players, although a second game is 
required for each two additional players. 
41.2 Team game proceed as if two or more two-player games were being played side by side 
completely independent of each other, except that all German players must end their turn before any 
Allied players may start theirs, and vice versa.  All German players sit on the same side of the table.

--- PAGE 65 ---
65 
41.3 LOS DIVIDER: During Prepare for Play, an Action card is drawn and placed between 
each game with the terrain side face up if it is a Terrain card other than a Pillbox, and the 
Open Ground side face up if it is not.  This card is the Line of Sight Divider card and 
determines the terrain between the two games and, consequently, if and how forces of 
each game may interact with the adjacent game.  Place the LOS Divider chit on the card and use it to 
separate the two games. 
41.4 Fire between groups of different games is always conducted at Relative Range 0 regardless of the 
range number in play for the respective groups.  Overrun and infiltration are not allowed between forces 
of different games.  Sniper attacks and Flanking Fire are allowed between forces of different games. 
41.41 Fire into a different game must be resolved before attacks from that same game are resolved 
against the same target. 
41.42 Before resolving a Fire attack against a group in a different game, the attacker must check the 
LOS Divider card to determine if an attack is possible between the two games. 
41.421If the LOS Divider card is a Hill card, there is no Line of Sight between the two games and no 
attacks (except Sniper) may be made between the two games [41.424]. 
41.422If the LOS Divider card is a Woods or Buildings card, there is no Line of Sight between the two 
games unless both the firing and defending groups are on a Hill terrain. 
41.423If the LOS Divider is a Brush, Wall, or Marsh card there is no Line of Sight between the two 
games unless the defender and/or firer are on Hill terrain. 
41.424Mortars may fire from one adjacent game to another regardless of the LOS Divider or the position 
of the defending or firing group if the SL’s in the adjacent games are in Radio Contact [41.7], and the 
firing mortar is in the same group as its SL. 
41.5 TRANSFER: A player may transfer all or part of his group which is adjacent to the other game 
(Group A (or Z) for a transfer to the left, Group D (or E) for a transfer to the right) into that game as 
reinforcements if certain conditions are met.  Note that “Group Z” identity Cards are provided for use 
instead of Group E whenever a Group D (or E) transfers to the right into an adjacent scenario so that it 
may enter the new scenario adjacent to that player’s Group A.  All unique rules pertaining to Group E as 
reinforcements also apply to Group Z. 
41.51 The group cannot contain any pinned, bogged or immobilized elements – even if those elements 
were to stay behind. 
41.52 The group cannot be at Relative Range 5 with any enemy forces in its own game, nor can it be 
encircled. 
41.53 The group must be capable of unhindered movement (i.e., it cannot currently be on a Wire, Marsh, 
Minefield, or Stream card, nor contain an IG requiring two Movement cards to move). 
41.54 The group must play a Movement card in the retreat mode with appropriate effects to the group’s 
range number and Relative Range.  On the very next turn, those forces being sent to the other game (if 
still mobile) may move off the Retreat card and out of the game, by playing a sideways Movement card 
on the LOS Divider card dividing the two games.  At that time, they become Group E (or Z) regardless of 
the number of friendly groups in the adjacent game.  Any remaining forces of the group which wish to 
stay in the original game (including now Pinned units) may take a separate action of their own as they 
are now considered an independent group. 
41.55 Group E (or Z) on the LOS Divider card is considered perpetually moving in the terrain of the LOS 
card for purposes of receiving and making attacks until they enter the other game as 
reinforcements.  Neither player may place Terrain or Alternate Terrain cards on the LOS Divider, 
although the transferring player may place Movement and Smoke cards there.  The Movement card in 
play on the LOS card does not double as the Movement card required for entering play as 
reinforcements, nor does it count as a +1 modifier to attacks against the transfer group once the group 
enters the game by playing the required Movement card to leave the LOS Divider card and its 
Movement card(s). 
41.56 The transfer group itself never blocks fire possibilities [41.4] between boards, although the terrain 
it occupies may.  A transfer group on the LOS divider card is subject to fire from any group in either 
adjacent game, and may also make such attacks – but always at Relative Range 0. 
41.57 Once on the LOS Divider card, control of Group E (or Z) belongs solely to the allied player in the 
game being moved into.  It can be rallied only by cards from that player’s hand, and it can be moved 
only as arriving reinforcements [35.3] by cards from the new owner’s hand.  The transfer group could 
return to its original game, but only via the required cards for reinforcement entry from the new owner’s 
hand, and only at his option.  The leadership capabilities of any leader in the transfer group cannot be 
used by the new owner to restore his hand capacity until the leader leaves the LOS Divider card – even 
though he now controls that leader.  If, due to a transfer between games, two SL’s or two acting SL’s are 
present in the same scenario, that player’s hand capacity is not reduced for the pinning or removal of a 
SL unless both are pinned and/or eliminated. 
41.58 If the LOS Divider is a Marsh card, and AFV may not attempt any transfer.  Similarly, if the LOS 
card is a terrain type requiring a Bog check, any transferring AFV must so check. 
41.581A transfer group may not make its reinforcement entry into the new game from a Marsh LOS 
Divider card unless it has first placed a second Movement card on top of that Marsh card.  Similarly, if

--- PAGE 66 ---
66 
the transfer group contains an IG it may have to play another Movement card on the LOS Divider before 
it is eligible to move into the new game. 
41.582The transfer group may not move onto a Stream LOS Divider card until it has first successfully 
forded the Stream as per [8.53].  Should it fail to ford the stream it may attempt to do so again in 
subsequent turns without first playing another retreat so long as the other requirements [41.52]-[41.53] 
are still met. 
41.59 Only one group per side may transfer between the same two games.  Forces 
transferred to the LOS Divider card are considered no longer part of the sender’s force for 
Scenario victory conditions, and constitute reinforcements to the recipient once they enter his 
game.  Once a player has won his scenario, it remains won even if his force is subsequently 
eliminated due to action in an adjoining scenario.  A Transfer cannot be made into a scenario which is 
already won or lost.  Note, however, that even though a player has won his scenario, his remaining force 
can “break” if he transfers enough men to an adjacent game to reduce his own force to the point where 
casualties already sustained would exceed half of his remaining force.  In this case, the transferred men 
would remain in play as reinforcements for the recipient, but any remaining men (and their controlling 
player) would be incapable of further action. 
41.6 Action cards from one game never enter the other game.  Action cards played on the LOS Divider 
should be returned to their proper deck’s Discard pile as soon as they are no longer needed for display 
on the LOS Divider. 
41.7 RADIO CONTACT: Players on the same team may not converse nor reveal the contents of their 
hands to their partners in other games unless they are in radio contact.  Radio contact is allowable only 
between unpinned SL’s with an unpinned radio in their group.  Radio contact is established by playing a 
Radio card and drawing any non-malfunction RNC as the sole action of a single SL’s group (it cannot be 
used to rally men also).  Radio contact is maintained until either SL is pinned, eliminated, or infiltrates. 
41.8 VICTORY CONDITIONS: The team which has won the most individual scenarios is the winner.  If 
the teams win an equal number of scenarios, the team having recorded the most casualty Victory Points 
is the winner.  Note that a team game can consist of any number of games being played side by side 
using any mixture of scenarios.  For play balance purposes, the best method is to allow one team to 
select the scenarios being played in each game, and to allow the other team to select the side it wishes 
to play. 
41.9 GAME CONTINUATION: In the Team Game, a player’s role does not usually end when he has 
accomplished his scenario Victory Conditions or broken the opposing squad.  As long as any of his 
team-mates continue play of their respective scenarios, he may assist them by firing across the LOS 
Divider or sending them reinforcements. 
41.91 Whenever a player is defeated, his forces are removed from the game.  However, the victorious 
player may continue to play by himself if the Time Limit in that scenario has not yet been reached.  The 
victorious player continues to draw cards from his own Draw Pile and play and discard cards from his 
hand during his turn as before except that now only the opposing player(s) from the different game(s) 
may fire on him and he will be the only player drawing from his Draw pile.  However, such players 
cannot discard Terrain or Wire (or place Smoke) on his opponent’s groups due to [41.6]. 
41.92 What an unopposed player should do to help his team-mate(s) is dependent on many variables 
such as the relative time remaining in his and adjacent games, the amount of urgency for assistance for 
a neighbouring player, current card hand, number of pinned troops, the LOS Divider card, present group 
arrangement and terrain, etc.  However, because a player can send only one reinforcement group into 
an adjacent game he must strongly consider whether it is worthwhile to take the time to increase the 
size of that group through Lateral Group Transfer or Individual Transfer before sending those 
reinforcements. 
41.93 The Team Game continues until the Time Limit has been reached in the last ongoing game 
between two opponents.  Should the Time Limit expire first in any of the other games, that player(s) is 
unable to assist his allied player(s) in any way and play in that game section ceases. 
 
42. CAMPAIGN GAME  
 
42.1 By keeping records of the fate of individual men from one game to the next an interesting study can 
be made of the long range effects of a combat experience on a squad and its fighting capability.  To 
engage in a Campaign Game, merely select a given number of scenarios to be played and the order in 
which they are to be played.  These scenarios may be of the DYO type; but they and the number of 
such games which will compose the series should be designated prior to the start of a Campaign 
Game.  The individual scenarios of the Campaign Game may have a wide assortment of victory 
conditions, men and equipment.  However, in each case, the actual infantrymen of the scenario are 
taken from a pool of the men that come with the game.  These men are listed on a roster kept by the 
owning player which denotes their defence values, rank, and experience.  The owning player must use 
the men called for by the scenario if they are still available.  If not, he must choose other men from his 
roster with the same weapons (EXC: leaders may be armed differently) which will fill the infantry 
requirements of the scenario to be played.  However, he cannot have more than one SL and one 
ASL.  If he has no men available armed as per the scenario requirements, he must revive the listed man 
through the replacement procedure [42.41] except for those who are a SL, ASL or Commissar.  EXC: A

--- PAGE 67 ---
67 
player may replace any listed man armed with a Rifle with another man with a Machine Pistol, but only if 
no other men armed with Rifles are available to replace that man (and vice versa). 
42.2 The player can choose which man from his roster of available men will be the SL and/or ASL if he 
does not have the one(s) specified by the scenario.  However, a SL must have the rank of SSG, SGT, 
CPL, JR SGT, or Commissar, must have a KIA value of 8, and must be armed with either a Machine 
Pistol, Rifle, or Assault Rifle.  Note: Carbines, Semi-Automatic Rifles, and Bolt Action Rifles are all 
interchangeable for purposes of choosing a replacement with the same weapon.  An ASL must have the 
rank of CPL, JR SGT, PFC, or Commissar and a  KIA value of 8.  An ASL cannot have a higher rank 
than the SL.  If no men with these qualifications are available, the player must pay for a transfer 
[42.5].  If an ASL armed with a LMG is needed to be the SL for a scenario, he may do so, but must 
exchange weapons (using the proper weapon chits) with another listed man prior to the start of play. 
42.3 Once a few scenarios have been played in a Campaign Game, the defence values of men will 
often vary from those printed on their card.  Therefore, players should place Morale and/or Panic value 
chits next to those Personality cards with a defence value which has changed to other than its printed 
value.  The black numbered chits are new Morale values; the red numbered chits are new Panic 
values.  Additional chits bearing the term “SSG”, “SL” or “ASL” are available for men elevated to that 
status.  In addition, a limited number of “blank” Personality cards are provided for each weapon type and 
nationality so that players may pencil in new values for play if they prefer.  Remember that the CCV of a 
man whose Morale value or weapon has changed must be calculated separately. 
42.4 ROSTER: A player updates the records of each of his men until that Personality is lost by CC, a 
KIA result, capture, or non-survivable Panic.  A man who is removed from a game due to Rout is 
considered to have survived the scenario in good health and remains on the player’s Campaign Game 
roster.  A man always enters the next scenario with a functioning weapon of the type listed on his card 
regardless of the state of that weapon at the end of the previous scenario.  Any AFV and/or IG called for 
in a scenario is considered an auxiliary force appearing from outside the Campaign Game roster.  Such 
forces are not recorded on the roster nor manned form among the men on that roster.  A man who 
survives a scenario with a wound is not eligible for use in the next three scenarios, but remains on the 
roster for use thereafter.  Write “Wound” in the KIA column and the letter of the next scenario which he 
is eligible to participate in. 
42.41 REPLACEMENTS: Whenever a man is killed, a check mark is placed in his KIA column.  That 
man is unavailable for future use until a scenario Force listing of him cannot be satisfied by substitution 
of a like-armed man from the roster.  At that point, the man must be recreated as a replacement.  Erase 
the check mark in the KIA column, place one in the “Replacement” column, and subtract one Campaign 
Game Victory Point form your score.  The replacement’s initial rank is always Private and his Morale 
and Panic Defence values are as depicted on his card, but his initial KIA value is always a “7” (“6” if 
armed with a flamethrower).  The “KIA” value must be so noted with a “KIA 7” chit next to his card when 
in play and by writing a “7” in the KIA column.  His new rank of PVT must also be recorded in the “Rank” 
column. 
42.42 ROUT: Place a check mark in the ROUT column of a man who routs safely from the game.  At the 
conclusion of the scenario any man which has left that scenario as a result of Rout [6.531] has either his 
MORALE or PANIC Defence value lowered by 1 (to a minimum of 0).  The owner may decide which 
value to decrease, but may never have a Panic value which is < the Morale value.  The new defence 
value is entered on the Roster for that man in his MORALE or PANIC column and is subject to change 
again depending on how the man does in future scenarios.  Should his defence values be reduced to 0 
for both Panic and Morale, the man is considered KIA instead.  A man removed due to Rout earns a 
slash mark in the SURVIVAL column, and loses all accumulated ELAN points earned to date.  After all 
these alterations to the roster have been made, erase the check mark in the Rout column. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
42.42 Can a personality with Morale and Panic values of 7 continue to accumulate Elan points to negate a 
reduction of his Morale/Panic values caused by Rout? A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
42.43 ELAN: A man may improve his Morale and / or Panic Defence values by gaining Elan points 
during the course of play.  Elan points are recorded immediately as they occur in the Elan section of the 
Personality Roster.  Elan points can accumulate from one scenario to another and are earned for the 
following events: 
ELAN 
POINTS 
EVENT REQUIRED  
1 
Win Scenario 
2 
Wounded or unpinned at end of Scenario (each occurrence)  
3 
Used Hero Card 
4 
Kill an enemy in CC (fully manned IG counts as 3 enemy) or destroy* an AFV with a 
bazooka/panzerschreck/panzerfaust  
5 
Destroy* AFV with Demo Charge or ATMM; kill or break three or more men with Demo 
Charge 
10 
Destroy* AFV in CC without secondary weapons

--- PAGE 68 ---
68 
X 
Infiltrate an enemy group and fire double firepower into that group resulting in removal 
or pinning of at least one enemy due to that fire.   Elan points earned equal to the 
number of unpinned men in the defending group prior to the resolution of the attack. 
 
[*Immobilization of AFV is worth two less points; a man cannot gain points for both the immobilization 
and elimination of the same AFV.] 
 
42.44 At the end of a scenario in which a man has participated, he may trade 5 Elan points for a one 
increment improvement in his MORALE or PANIC Defence values.  MORALE and PANIC Defence 
values can never be increased higher than 7.  In choosing which value to increase, keep in mind that the 
PANIC value can never be < the MORALE value.  Any Elan points exceeding 5 must be carried over for 
use after a future scenario in which the man takes part.  Finally, place a slash mark in his PROMOTION 
column whenever he has improved his MORALE or PANIC Defence value.  In a Team Game, such 
purchases of Defence value improvements cannot be made until after the end of all scenarios played 
within that Team Game.  However, in a Team Game, a man may earn Elan points (or lose them by 
routing) by being unpinned at the end of both his own scenario at the point he wins that scenario and 
any scenario he is transferred into a Team Game. 
42.45 SURVIVAL: Record a slash (/) in the Survival column of every man which participates in a 
scenario without being killed including those who have routed away safely.  After a replacement has 
accrued 5 slash marks in the Survival column, his KIA value changes from 7 to 8, (or from 6 to 7 in the 
case of a man armed with a Flamethrower) and should be so noted in the “KIA” value column of the 
roster and the slash marks erased from the Survival column.  KIA values can never be increased in 
higher than 8 (or 7 for a man armed with a flamethrower), and apply only to the Personnel card’s normal 
side.  KIA values are always one higher on the Pinned side. 
42.46 PROMOTION: A man is eligible for promotion whenever the sum of the slash marks in his 
SURVIVAL and PROMOTION columns equals 10 or more.  Erase all slash marks in the SURVIVAL and 
PROMOTION columns of the man’s Personality Roster and promote the man to the next higher 
rank.  Commissars are not eligible for promotion, nor are they considered equivalent to or > any military 
rank.  A SSG acting a SL increases the player’s nationality and hand capacity by one card as long as he 
remains in play and unpinned.  Rule [15.2] remains in effect; the only difference is that the nationality 
limit on the number of cards which make up a player’s hand is one greater to start with, and thus when 
the SSG SL becomes pinned or removed, that limit is reduced to two less than that nationality’s 
increased hand capacity. 
42.5 TRANSFER: A player who finds himself with no man on his roster capable of being a SL may pick 
one random from the previously eliminated SL cards which are not available for replacement, and return 
him to the roster.  The man is not penalized as a replacement by having his KIA value lowered, but he 
does count as a Transfer which costs seven Victory Points [42.8].  A Russian player in need of a SL 
must shuffle the Commissar card amongst the SL cards before randomly drawing one.  The same 
process holds true for transfer of an ASL, except that SL’s are not eligible.  Note that players are under 
no obligation to have an ASL and may chance play without one. 
42.6 WITHDRAWAL: Unlike the basic game, in the Campaign Game a player has the option of 
accepting the better part of valour and leaving the field (and the scenario) to the enemy so as to save 
his force form further punishment and preserve their fighting strength for future scenarios in which the 
odds might be more in their favour.  He may withdraw a group at range number 0 (or less) from play if 
that group is capable of normal movement by playing a red Movement card in the retreat mode on that 
group.  The mere act of Retrograde behind range number 0 does not by itself qualify as a withdrawal 
attempt.  The player must state that he is attempting to withdraw the group, and in doing so he 
concedes victory in that scenario.  The group may never return.  To successfully withdraw, the group 
cannot be encircled and cannot be successfully pursued [42.7].  Any man who successfully withdraws 
earns the two Elan Points awarded for ending a scenario unpinned. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........
42.6 & 42.7 If an opposing group fires on a withdrawing group and pins one or more members, is the withdrawing 
group still able to complete its withdrawal by playing a Terrain card? 
A. Yes, but the pinned man would not be eligible for Elan Points for surviving the game unpinned. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
42.7 PURSUIT: Instead of ending a scenario as soon as the Victory Conditions have been met, or the 
enemy has given up by attempting withdrawal, or the enemy squad has been broken, the player who 
has won the scenario has the option of attempting to continue play in hopes of causing further casualties 
if the following conditions are met. 
42.71 To pursue, the current Draw pile must still have cards remaining. 
42.72 To pursue, the winning side must have an unpinned SL (not ASL) or Commissar in play who 
passes a Morale Check by drawing a RNC (ignoring the colour) < his current MORALE value.  The SL is 
not pinned if he fails this Morale Check; he merely decides not to pursue and the scenario ends 
immediately.  Pursuit is limited to those opposing groups which have not yet withdrawn and to those 
which have withdrawn but are still at Relative Range 5 to any pursuing group after the pursuing player’s

--- PAGE 69 ---
69 
turn.  Any group which has announced its withdrawal as per [42.6] and is at Relative Range 4 (or further) 
from the closest enemy group at the start of its own turn is immediately removed from play. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
42.72 When an ASL has taken over the squad as per 15.3, is he capable of deciding to pursue? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
42.73 Pursuit continues until the present Draw pile is exhausted, or all enemy groups have successfully 
withdrawn from play. 
42.74 Once a scenario is won, it counts as a win for that player regardless of what transpires during the 
course of the pursuit.  However, Elan Points and Panic penalties continue to accumulate during the 
Pursuit and are not awarded until the scenario ends. 
42.8 VICTORY CONDITIONS: The winner of the Campaign Game is that side having the most 
Campaign Game Victory Points.  Campaign Game Victory Points are awarded as follows: 
 
VICTORY POINTS 
EVENT REQUIRED  
12 
Won Scenario 
-3 + -X 
Lost Infantry Gun  
-5 + -X 
Lost AFV 
-1 
Per KIA (including Commander Killed losses of AFV or IG)  
-7 
Required Transfer of SL, ASL, or Commissar  
 
X= Number of Victory Points equal to boxed Effect Number of AFV or IG 
 
42.9 PERSONAL CAMPAIGN: Players may wish to enliven their Campaigns by using one of the blank 
Personnel cards to represent themselves.  Fill in one of the Rifle or Machine Pistol blank Personnel 
cards with your name.  Your initial rank on the roster will be Private and your Morale/Panic values will be 
2/3 if German, 2/4 if American, or 3/4 if Russian.  Your normal KIA defence will be 8.  You will be subject 
to normal Panic, Elan, Promotion, and Survival rules.  However, you will appear automatically in every 
scenario as an extra man (who cannot be replaced by a similarly armed man) in addition to the specified 
forces of that scenario so it will behove you to improve your namesake’s abilities for purposes of winning 
the Campaign as well as the vicarious joy of surviving yet another fire fight in absentia.  If killed, you 
must come back at the cost of one Campaign Game Victory Point as a green replacement with a KIA 
value of 7 and the same Defence values you started the Campaign with.  If wounded, you have the 
option of coming back as a green replacement which eliminates the wounded man from further 
consideration, or playing the next three scenarios without your namesake (and the corresponding extra 
man). 
[SAMPLE CAMPAIGN GAME: Although the most interesting Campaign Games will be those that you 
design yourself using rule section [43.0], the following suggested Campaign Game format is provided as 
a ready made base from which to experience this unique game experience.  Players who like statistical 
analyses of games and who are not bothered by the paperwork problems associated with recordkeeping 
are urged to try a Campaign Game.  Only by play of scenarios within the context of an overall format 
wherein individual scenario victory conditions are not the sole factors to be considered, does one begin 
to experience the difficulty of the life and death decisions made on the battlefield.  Knowing when to 
admit defeat and save your force to fight another day becomes more important than attaining individual 
wins.  More importantly, one gains an appreciation of the value of veteran troopers within the framework 
of a squad when he considers the alternative of going into his next action with green replacements.  It 
makes for a highly rewarding and unique gaming experience, which do to the short playing time of UP 
FRONT, is quite playable in the course of a few evening’s play.] 
Our sample Campaign Game consists of playing Scenarios A, B, D, E, F, G, H, C, & L in that order.  If 
the next scenario to be played is not a Meeting Engagement, the player with the most Victory Points at 
the conclusion of the last played scenario is the attacking force.  Should the two players be tied in 
Victory Points, the player who won the last scenario, is the attacking force. 
 
43. DESIGN YOUR OWN  
You can “Design Your Own” scenarios for Up Front in several different ways.  Three easy methods are 
recommended here.  All use a tabulation of the Point Values printed on each Personnel card to 
accommodate a purchase of forces equal to or less than a given number of DYO points.  In addition, 
special capabilities such as Snipers, Elite forces, and certain secondary weapons can be purchased to 
augment a player’s forces. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
43.0 May Partisans ever receive armor support? 
A. No 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........

--- PAGE 70 ---
70 
43.1 PLAY BALANCE: In this version of DYO, players select a scenario from the 12 provided (or others 
they may have designed themselves) and pick the side they wish to play.  If both players want the same 
side, each secretly records the number of DYO points he is willing to give his opponent to allow him to 
play his preferred side.  The player who has written the highest number of points gets to play his 
preferred side, but the other player may use the DYO points bid by his opponent to augment his force by 
purchase of additional forces using those DYO points. 
43.2 REPLAY: In this version of DYO one player selects a scenario to be played from those provided in 
the game, and the other player chooses his side.  The year of the scenario is determined by drawing a 
RPN and consulting the TIME FRAME Table.  Only those Personnel cards available within that time 
frame may be purchased for that scenario.  All personnel cards without “AVAILABLE” information 
printed on the reverse of their cards may be used in any scenario.  Each player then secretly selects his 
force from among the Personality card provided in the game using a number of DYO points not to 
exceed the number printed in red on the Scenario card for their respective side of the scenario being 
played.  DYO purchases must include a maximum and minimum of one SL and one ASL (a Commissar 
may be substituted for either).  Players should agree beforehand whether or not to exclude the use of 
Infantry Guns and/or AFV’s in scenarios not originally using them.  All other conditions of the scenario 
remain unchanged, although Sniper capacity can be bought (or strengthened) by a player without it. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
43.2 Does the statement "DYO purchases must include a SL and ASL" apply to all DYO games? 
A. No, its DYO. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
43.3 BIDS: In a Bid DYO, a scenario including the defensive force is randomly constructed, and then 
both players secretly bid for the right to attack it with a force of their own design. 
43.31 Determine the nationalities to be played and their roles by drawing a RPN and consulting the 
TACTICAL POSITION Table. 
43.32 Determine the year the scenario takes place by drawing a RPN and consulting the TIME FRAME 
Table. 
43.33 Determine the Victory Conditions for the scenario by drawing a RPN and consulting the VICTORY 
CONDITION Table, or by mutual agreement. 
43.34 Determine the Time Limit for the scenario by drawing a RNC and noting the colour.  All 0 or black 
RNC’s are three deck time limits; all red RNC’s of 1-6 are four deck time limits. 
43.35 Both players determine the composition of the defending force by mutually selecting the 
defending Personality cards to be used, taking into account consideration of the Victory Conditions, 
Time Limit, Deck Composition, and Cower Card allotments already determined. 
43.36 Both players now secretly record the minimum attacking force they feel is necessary to 
accomplish the Victory Conditions and total the DYO point expenditures they have made to arrive at an 
overall point cost for their force.  Players simultaneously reveal the composition and point value of their 
attack force.  The player with the least expensive attack force becomes the attacking player with the 
force he has selected.  The remaining player receives the defending forces selected in [43.35].  Point 
value ties are resolved with a RNC draw.  The game now begins normally per rule section 3, and with 
the attacking player always playing first. 
 
43.4 REINFORCEMENTS: Players wishing to purchase reinforcements may do so at reduced cost, 
determined by the earliest possible arrival time of the units into the scenario.  To determine the adjusted 
point value of reinforcements, total the DYO point values of all purchased reinforcements which are 
eligible to enter at the end of each deck and multiply that sum by the proper percentage to determine the 
adjusted Point value of those reinforcements as a group (all fractions rounded up).  Reinforcements are 
discounted in point value as follows: 
 
Arrival After One Deck x .8  
Arrival After Two Decks x .5  
Arrival After Three Decks x .2 
 
43.41 The total number of Reinforcements can never exceed half the number of Personality cards in the 
starting force even if they arrive at two different times. 
43.42 If an AFV enters as a Reinforcement, it must arrive at range number 0. 
 
43.5 TROOP TYPES: Players may purchase a troop type other than “Line” by increasing their total DYO 
point expenditures by 15% for Elite forces, or decreasing their total DYO point expenditures by 15% for 
Second Line troops.  Partisans may be purchased by the Russian player at a discount of 5%. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
43.5 & 37.1  Can Partisans be considered Elite? 
A. No. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........

--- PAGE 71 ---
71 
43.6 SNIPERS: Minefield, and Pillbox cards are always treated as Cower cards unless allocated to the 
defending player at the outset by the scenario in play or the Victory Condition Table.  Snipers are always 
allocated to the defending player.   The attacking player in a DYO scenario may purchase use of the 
Sniper cards, but he may never use Minefield or Pillbox cards as anything other than a Cower 
card.  Note that a player may also purchase “insurance” for his Sniper capability in the form of a second 
Sniper which enables him to continue using Sniper cards until he has suffered two successful Sniper 
Checks.  Sniper capability costs 35 points.  Double Sniper capability costs an additional 15 points. 
43.7 SECONDARY WEAPONS: In addition to purchase of Personnel cards, the following special 
Secondary Weapons may be purchased in chit form to be carried by any designated infantryman in 
addition to his principal weapon. 
 
ATMM: 7 AVAILABLE: 1944  
 Panzerfaust: 25 AVAILABLE: 7/43  
 Demolition Charge: 50  
 Radio, Fire Strength 5: German 42, U.S. 50, Russian 22  
 Radio, Fire Strength 6: German 84, U.S. 100, Russian 44  
 Radio, Fire Strength 7: German 126, U.S. 150, Russian 66 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
43.7 Is the purchase cost of Secondary Weapons 15% more for Elite Troops and 15% less for Second Line Troops? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........... 
TIME FRAME TABLE 
RPN* 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
YEAR 
1945a 
1944b 
1944a 
1943b 
1943a 
1942b 
1942a 
1941b 
1941a 
 
*If vs. U.S. use column 6 of the RPN card; if vs. Russian use column 9 of the RPN card.  
a = January through June; b = July through December 
 
VICTORY CONDITIONS TABLE 
RPN* 
SITUATION 
1 
The attacking player must have twice as many Victory Points as the defending player at the end 
of the scenario.  Territorial Victory Points are awarded only by multiplying the number of 
unpinned Personality cards in each group occupying Buildings terrain at the end of the scenario 
by its range number.  Casualty Victory Points are awarded normally.  The Pillbox, Marsh, and 
Stream cards are treated as Cower cards.  Remove the first four Woods cards.  
2 
The attacking player must have twice as many Victory Points as the defending player at the end 
of the scenario.  The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower card.  Remove the first four Buildings 
cards.  
3 
The player with the most Victory Points at the end of the scenario is the winner.  The Pillbox 
card is treated as a Cower card.  Remove the first four Buildings cards 
4 
The player with the most Victory Points at the end of the scenario s the winner.  However, 
aggressive action Victory Points are awarded only to those Personnel cards occupying 
Buildings terrain.  Victory Points for casualties are awarded normally.  The Pillbox card is 
treated as a Cower card.  Remove the first four Woods cards.  
5 
The attacking player wins by eliminating all Personality cards in the Pillbox or if the Pillbox 
becomes vacant.  The defending player wins by avoiding the attacker’s Victory Conditions.  The 
defending player receives the Pillbox card prior to setup.  Remove the first Stream card and the 
first four Buildings cards.  
6 
The first player to have four unpinned Personality cards in one or more non-infiltrated groups 
with a “4” range number in terrain which will reduce the Fire Strength of any attack against them 
is the winner.  If neither player accomplishes this by the time limit, the defending player 
wins.  The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower card.  Remove the first four Buildings cards.  
7 
The attacker wins if he can bring at least half of this force unpinned to Relative Range 5 of any 
defending group and in terrain which will reduce the Fire Strength of any attack against 
them.  The defender wins by avoiding the attacker’s Victory Conditions.  The Pillbox card is 
treated as a Cower card.  Remove the first three Buildings cards.  
8 
The attacker wins by eliminating more than half of the defender’s force before his own squad is 
broken.  Treat the Pillbox card as a cower Card.  Remove the first five Buildings cards 
 
*Use column 8 of the RPN card.

--- PAGE 72 ---
72 
 
 
UNIT TYPE TABLE 
 
YEAR 
1945a 
1944b 
1944a 
1943b 
1943a 
1942b 
1942a 
1941b 
1941a 
German 
S 
1-5 
1-4 
1-3 
1-2 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- 
German 
L 
6-9 
5-8 
4-8 
3-7 
2-7 
1-7 
1-7 
1-8 
1-9 
German 
E 
0 
9-0 
9-0 
8-0 
8-0 
8-0 
8-0 
9-0 
0 
Russian 
S 
- 
- 
1 
1-2 
1-3 
1-3 
1-4 
1-4 
1-3 
Russian 
L 
1-5 
1-6 
2-7 
3-7 
4-7 
4-8 
5-9 
5-0 
4-0 
Russian 
E 
6-0 
7-0 
8-0 
8-0 
8-0 
9-0 
0 
- 
- 
US S 
1 
1-2 
1-3 
1-4 
1-5 
1-6 
- 
- 
- 
US L 
2-7 
3-8 
4-8 
5-9 
6-9 
7-0 
- 
- 
- 
US E 
8-0 
9-0 
9-0 
0 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- 
British S 
- 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 1 - 2 
 1 - 2 
- 
British L 
 1 - 7 
 2 - 7 
 2 - 7 
 2 - 7 
 2 - 8 
 2 - 8 
 3 - 8 
 3 - 9 
- 
British E 
 8 - 0 
 8 - 0 
 8 - 0 
 8 - 0 
 9 - 0 
 9 - 0 
 9 - 0 
 0 
- 
Japanese 
S 
 1 - 2 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 - 
- 
- 
- 
Japanese 
L 
 3 - 9 
 2 - 9 
 2 - 9 
 2 - 8 
 2 - 8 
 1 - 8 
 1 - 8 
 1 - 7 
- 
Japanese 
E 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 9 - 0 
 9 - 0 
 9 - 0 
 9 - 0 
 8 - 0 
- 
 
Use 0 RPN; S = Second Line, L = Line, E = Elite 
 
 
TACTICAL POSITION TABLE 
 
RPN Attacker vs Defender  
 
1 Russian vs German  
2 German vs Russian  
3 American vs German  
4 German vs American 
 
 *Use column 4 of the RPN card

--- PAGE 73 ---
73 
AMERICAN CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER 
 
# NAME/WEAPON 
PTS
RANK1 
KIA2 
REPL3 
MORALE4 
PANIC5 
ROUT6 
ELAN7 
SURV8 
PROMO9 
1. BurnettMP 
47 SGT 
8 
T 
4 
6 
 
 
 
 
2. Moores/MP 
36
CPL 
8 
T 
3 
5 
 
 
 
 
3. Fox/BAR 
44 PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
4.Mc Elroy/R 
16 PVT 
8 
 
3 
5 
 
 
 
 
5. Frattali/R 
14
PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
6.Smith/R 
15 PVT 
8 
 
1 
3 
 
 
 
 
7. Anderson/R 
14 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
8. Burke/R 
9 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
9. Myers/R 
24 PVT 
8 
 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
10. Watson/R 
4 PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
 ll.Greenwood/R 
16 PVT 
8 
 
3 
5 
 
 
 
 
12. Edwards/R 
11 PVT 
8 
 
2 
4 
 
 
 
 
13. Spoulos/BAZ 
52 PFC 
8 
 
3 
5 
 
 
 
 
14. Towle/BAZ 
74 PFC 
8 
 
4 
6 
 
 
 
 
15. Nixon/MMG 
115 PFC 
8 
 
4 
6 
 
 
 
 
16. Moras/FT 
73 PFC 
7 
 
4 
6 
 
 
 
 
17. Ransom/CAR 
16 PFC 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
18. Allen/CAR 
55 SGT 
8 
T 
5 
7 
 
 
 
 
19. Mc Gowan/BAR 
38 PFC 
8 
 
3 
5 
 
 
 
 
20. Hull/R 
42 CPL 
8 
T 
4 
6 
 
 
 
 
21. Maly/MP 
14 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
22. Cantatore/MP 
9 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
23. Coates/MP 
16 PVT 
8 
 
3 
5 
 
 
 
 
24. Crain/MP 
5 PVT 
8 
 
1 
3 
 
 
 
 
25. Coggins/MP 
19 PVT 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
26. Degi/MP 
9 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
27.Martin/MP 
11 PVT 
8 
 
2 
4 
 
 
 
 
28.Shelley/MOR 
61 CPL 
8 
 
3 
5

--- PAGE 74 ---
74 
GERMAN CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER 
 
# NAME/WEAPON 
PTS 
RANK1 
KIA2 
REPL3 
MORALE4 
PANIC5 
ROUT6 
ELAN7 
SURV8 
PROMO9 
1. DietttingerMP 
51 
SGT 
8 
T 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
2. Hessel/MP 
41 
CPL 
8 
T 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
3. Schussel/LMG 
54 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
4.Schumacher/R 
15 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
5. Shultz/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
6.Bernhoff/R 
25 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
7. Beck/R 
5 
PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
8. Wollak/R 
8 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
9. Streich/R 
13 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
10. Wolff/R 
17 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
 ll.Gerhart/PSK 
89 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
12. Griess/LMG 
72 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
13. Wittenberg/MMG 
129 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
14. Wagner/FT 
72 
PFC 
7 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
15. Volke/AR 
28 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
16. Sheaffer/ATR 
15 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
17. Hauptmann/MP 
23 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
18. Posner/MP 
9 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
19. Schlaffer/AR 
18 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
20. Frantz/PSK 
66 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
21. Hamblen/MP 
5 
PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
22. Loth/MP 
11 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
23. Stahler/MP 
46 
SGT 
8 
T 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
24. Steiner/MP 
36 
CPL 
8 
T 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
25. Bauer/MOR 
60 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
26. Kubler/AR 
30 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
27.Klapp/AR 
14 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
3

--- PAGE 75 ---
75 
RUSSIAN CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER 
 
# NAME/WEAPON 
PTS
RANK1 
KIA2 
REPL3 
MORALE4 
PANIC5 
ROUT6 
ELAN7 
SURV8 
PROMO9 
1. Rostov/R 
40 
SGT 
8 
T 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
2. Burlak/LMG 
67 JR SGT 
8 
T 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
3. Petrovsky/R 
15 PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
4.Yastreboft/R 
12 PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
5. Storchillo/R 
9
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
6.Soloviev/R 
10 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
7. Kristov/R 
9 PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
8. Chernenko/R 
15 PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
9. Nosenko/R 
6 PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
10. Kvasnikov/R 
4 PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
 ll.Sokoloff/R 
7 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
12. Vakuta/R 
17 PVT 
8 
 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
13. Zaharoff/R 
14 PVT 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
14. Zayakov/R 
6 PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
15. Uihaloft/R 
10 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
16. Semenov/MMG 
69 CPL 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
17. Kirilenko/FT 
48 CPL 
7 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
18. Mihailoft/ATR 
12 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
19. Dottski/MP 
33 COMM 
8 
T 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
20. Knezevich/MP 
14 PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
21. Aliev/MP 
32 JR SGT 
8 
T 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
22. Igorski/MP 
12 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
23. Podgorny/MP 
17 PVT 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
24. Baibakov/MP 
11 PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
25. Korniev/MP 
8 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
26. Zorin/MP 
43 SGT 
8 
T 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
27.Symsilov/MOR 
33 CPL 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
28.Borisoft/LMG 
30 CPL 
8 
 
3 
3

--- PAGE 76 ---
76 
 
JAPANESE CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
# NAME/WEAPON 
PTS 
RANK1 
KIA2 
REPL3 
MORALE4 
PANIC5 
ROUT6 
ELAN7 
SURV8 
PROMO9 
1. Okimoto/R 
45 
SGT 
8 
T 
6 
6 
 
 
 
 
2. Togo/R 
37 
CPL 
8 
T 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
3. Yoruba/LMG 
47 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
4. Kobayashi/R 
17 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
5. Togami/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
6. Fujiyama/R 
13 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
7. Asanti/R 
13 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
8. Sakai/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
9. Fuchida/R 
7 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
10. Korata/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
11. Yumani/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
12. Fujita/R 
7 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
13. Fusano/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
14. Yorido/R 
13 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
IS. Isishi/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
16. Ashigawa/MMG 
79 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
17. Yamashira/FT 
55 
PFC 
7 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
18. Ikado/R 
17 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
19. Komoto/MP 
12 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
20. Shoburo/R 
20 
PVT 
8 
 
6 
6 
 
 
 
 
21. Kodu/R 
42 
SGT 
8 
T 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
22. Ichiki/GL 
41 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
23. Yumana/GL 
54 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
24. Yoruba/GL 
27 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
25. Kyoto/R 
33 
CPL 
8 
T 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
26. Sakata/R 
7 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
27. Tenyru/LMG 
35 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
28. Oi/ATR 
17 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
3

--- PAGE 77 ---
77 
 
BRITISH CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
# NAME/WEAPON 
PTS
RANK1 
KIA2 
REPL3 
MORALE4 
PANIC5 
ROUT6 
ELAN7 
SURV8 
PROMO9 
1. Vasey/MP 
51 
SGT 
8 
T 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
2. Bamard/R 
40
CPL 
8 
T 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
3. Scarborough/LMG 
61 PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
4.Tresham/R 
15 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
5. Hodge/R 
20
PVT 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
6.Willis/R 
15 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
7. Cleary/R 
5 PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
8. Cottrell/R 
15 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
9. Bell/R 
10 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
10. Moon/R 
10 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
ll.Davis/PIAT 
85 PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
12. Gilfallin/LMG 
46 PFC 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
13. Palmer/MMG 
114 PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
14. Vane/FT 
72 PVT 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
15. Shaw/MP 
21 PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
16. Ross/MP 
16 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
17. Shannon/MP 
26 PVT 
8 
 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
18. Whaley/MP 
11 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
19. Cole/MP 
5 PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
20. Coleman/PIAT 
64 PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
21. 0'Neill/MP 
46 SGT 
8 
T 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
22. Bums/MP 
36 CPL 
8 
T 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
23. Watney/MTR 
54 PFC 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
24. Whitesell/R 
25 PVT 
8 
 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
25. McNamara/R 
10 PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
26. Oldaker/ATR 
15 PFC 
8 
 
3 
4

--- PAGE 78 ---
78 
 
ITALIAN CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER 
 
# NAME/WEAPON 
PTS 
RANK1 
KIA2 
REPL3 
MORALE4 
PANIC5 
ROUT6 
ELAN7 
SURV8 
PROMO9 
1. Ferraro/MP 
36 
SGT 
8 
T 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
2. Antonio/R 
32 
CPL 
8 
T 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
3. Capitano/LMG 
33 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
3 
 
 
 
 
4. Sarducci/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
3 
 
 
 
 
5. Nardo/R 
5 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
1 
 
 
 
 
6. Abruzzi/R 
9 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
7. Marino/R 
7 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
2 
 
 
 
 
8. Paolini/R 
12 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
4 
 
 
 
 
9. Napoli/LMG 
30 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
10. Celozzi/R 
6 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
ll.Giorgio/R 
7 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
2 
 
 
 
 
12. Pasini/R 
9 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
13. Farinacci/R 
7 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
2 
 
 
 
 
14. Gionelli/R 
6 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
15. Ciappi/R 
5 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
1 
 
 
 
 
16. Natale/R 
6 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
17. Costanzi/R 
5 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
1 
 
 
 
 
18. Giganti/R 
10 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
3 
 
 
 
 
19. Tardieu/R 
3 
PVT 
8 
 
1 
1 
 
 
 
 
20. Moselli/R 
1 
PVT 
8 
 
1 
0 
 
 
 
 
21.Capone/MP 
39 
SGT 
8 
T 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
22. Farrio/MP 
31 
CPL 
8 
T 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
23. Correri/R 
9 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
24. Tiolle/R 
5 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
1 
 
 
 
 
25. Giovino/MTR 
35 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
26. Leone/FT 
30 
PFC 
7 
 
3 
2 
 
 
 
 
27. Salvadori/MMG 
52 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
28. Ritondo/ATR 
9 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
2

--- PAGE 79 ---
79 
 
 
FRENCH CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER 
 
# NAME/WEAPON 
PTS 
RANK1 
KIA2 
REPL3 
MORALE4 
PANIC5 
ROUT6 
ELAN7 
SURV8 
PROMO9 
1. Villeneuve/R 
38 
SGT 
8 
T 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
2. Dubois/R 
35 
CPL 
8 
T 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
3. Larue/LMG 
57 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
4. Cassavant/R 
15 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
5. Corbeil/R 
4 
PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
6. Piccard/R 
11 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
7. LaForte/R 
19 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
8. DeCautaux/R 
13 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
9. Bienvenue/R 
15 
PVT 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
10. Meileure/R 
8 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
ll.Kastler/R 
9 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
12. Rousselle/R 
13 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
13. Houle/MMG 
92 
CPL 
8 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
14. Montcalm/FT 
34 
PFC 
7 
 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
15. Brenton/R 
11 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
16. Baudet/R 
11 
PVT 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
17. Rochard/R 
19 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
5 
 
 
 
 
18. Bourassa/R 
8 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
2 
 
 
 
 
19. Tardieu/R 
4 
PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
20. Bernet/R 
22 
PVT 
8 
 
5 
6 
 
 
 
 
21. Petrou/R 
43 
SGT 
8 
T 
4 
5 
 
 
 
 
22. Goreux/R 
33 
CPL 
8 
T 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
23. Barral/R 
9 
PVT 
8 
 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
24. Lebesque/R 
4 
PVT 
8 
 
1 
2 
 
 
 
 
25. Sarte/MTR: 2 
42 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
3 
 
 
 
 
26. LaSalle/MTR: 3 
61 
PFC 
8 
 
4 
4 
 
 
 
 
27.Roche/LMG 
43 
PFC 
8 
 
3 
4

--- PAGE 80 ---
80 
 
EXPANSIONS 
 
BANZAI 
 
44. BRITISH  
 
44.1 HAND CAPACITY: British Line Troops have a five card hand capacity with a maximum 
discard capability of two cards per turn, but discards are allowed only in those player turns in which the 
British take no action.  
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
Discard Capability, 44.1, 14.5, 4.32, and 4.33 Can nationalities with multi-card discard capability discard two or 
more wires on a single group in a single turn? 
A. Yes. 
Examples: 
[NOTE: The examples assume that the indicated discards are valid for the scenario and situation (i.e. the 
discarding side has sniper capability).] 
Non-moving Group: May discard any number of SNIPERS and/or any number of WIRE cards. 
Moving Group: May discard one terrain card and/or any number of snipers and/or any number of WIRE cards. 
Rejecting the terrain does NOT reject the WIRE. If the terrain is accepted and WIRE is not allowed in that type of 
terrain (e.g. MARSH) then the WIRE is discarded. 
Two Moving Groups Exchanging Group Letters: Same as a moving group with two additions. If either group 
rejects a terrain discard, the position exchange is cancelled. If terrain is discarded on one group and accepted, the 
moving player MUST complete the position exchange by placing the other group in terrain (including open ground) 
on his next turn. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
44.2 SPLIT CARDS: The British player may use any Split Action card usable by either the 
American or German. There is one exception; the British player can use a Radio card only if it is usable 
by both the Anericans and Germans. 
44.3 FIREPOWER BONUS: The British were known for their coolness under fire and also 
benefited from greater marksmanship skills due to greater emphasis on practice firing in their training. 
Consequently, the British player may reduce the firepower factors to make any attack (by infantry only) 
by one per attack (down to a minimum of one). 
44.4 TROOP TYPES: Airborne are British Elite Troops. Airborne may take one action and still 
discard one card, or take no actions and still discard two cards. Home Guard are British Second Line 
troops. Home Guard troops have a maximum discard capability of one per turn, and only in thos turns in 
which they take no action. 
44.5 PIAT: The PIAT is a LATW [30.0] and is governed by the rules for bazookas except that it is 
not a crew served weapon (thus the absence of bracketed To Hit frequency numbers). 
44.6 ORDNANCE: During the early years of WWII, British ordnance suffered from an inability to 
fire both AP and HE ammunition. Anti-tank Guns and Tanks were viewed as anti-armor weapons 
exclusively, and consequently were at a loss to deal with infantry targets. Special "CS" (Close Support) 
versions of each tank design which could fire only HE had to be employed to deal with infantry, and in 
turn, were at a disadvantage versus enemy armor. To reflect this in game terms, all British ordnance 
incapable of firing HE ammunition has been given a red unboxed Effect number of 0. Such weapons 
may not add the To Hit Random Number on the RNC just drawn to determine a hit to the 0 Effect of the 
ordnance card [25.4]. The maximum effect strength of any British ordnance hit with a red unboxed 
strength of 0 is always 0 (barring any positive modifiers for Wire or Movement). 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
44.6 Change the last sentence to read: ". . . modifiers for wire, hill, or movement) prior to the draw of the RNC to 
determine its Final Strength." 
..................................................................................................................................................................................

--- PAGE 81 ---
81 
44.7 BREN CARRIERS: The British have a form of AFV card which is subject to elimination by 
Panic in the Pinned mode. The Wasp and Bren Carrier AFV cards are subject to the usual AFV rules for 
open-topped AFVs, but can also be eliminated due to Panic in the same manner as an infantryman due 
to the nature of their vehicle which never afforded full protection from small arms fire. A Bren Carrier (or 
any AFV) cannot be captured or used by other personnel; it is removed from play after Rout. 
44.8 DYO: The puchase cost of a British radio in a DYO scenario is identical to that of a German 
radio of the same strength [43.7]. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
44.8 Does a British FT get the Firepower bonus when attacking infantry by itself? 
A. Yes. 
44.8 Does a British FT get the Firepower bonus when attacking an AFV's armored defense values? 
A. Yes. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
44.9 LMG: The Bren Gun is not considered a crew-served weapon; thus the absence of bracketed 
firepower and malfunction values. A Hero card can be used to double the unbracketed firepower values 
[10.45] of this weapon only if the Hero card is also a black RNC. This rule cannot be used for other 
nationalities (EXC: Japanese). 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
44.9 This rule states that the British and (via exception) Japanese non-crew served LMGs can only double its 
firepower with the black RNC Hero card, thus implying that the American BAR can use either Hero card. 
Specifically "This rule cannot be used for other nationalities (EXC:Japanese)." However, rule 50.6 (DESERT 
WAR) states "Like all LMGs in the game which are not considered a crew-served weapon, a Hero card can be 
used to double the LMG's firepower only if the Hero card is also a black RNC." Which rule is correct (as they 
contradict each other), and how is the BAR handled?  
A. Both are; nor do they contradict. The BAR is not considered to be an LMG. Either hero card may be used to 
double its firepower.  
CLARIFICATION: 
The American BAR may use both Hero cards, and is not considered an LMG. 
The British LMG may only use the Black Hero card. 
The French LMG may only use the Black Hero card. 
The German LMG may use both Hero cards, but doubles its bracketed value. 
The Italian LMG may only use the Black Hero card. 
The Japanese LMG may only use the Black Hero card. 
The Russian LMG may use both Hero cards, but doubles its bracketed value. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
 
45. JAPANESE  
 
45.1 HAND CAPACITY: Japanese Line Troops have a four card hand capacity with a maximum 
discard capability of two cards per turn, but discards are possible only in those turns in which no action 
is performed (EXC: [45.11] & [45.12]).  
45.11 FREE MOVEMENT: The Japanese may play Movement cards in any capacity without affecting their 
discard capability for that turn. In other words, play of a Movement card by the Japanese counts as an 
action for the group it is played on, but does not count as an action that would prohibit the Japanese 
from making a discard during that turn. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.11 Can the Japanese still discard if they attempt to infiltrate one man (only) using a movement card for the 
attempt (so as not to take a morale check)? 
A. Yes. 
45.11 Can the Japanese still discard if the attempt to infiltrate two (or more) men, all using movement cards? 
A. Yes. 
45.11 Can the Japanese still discard if the attempt to infiltrate two or more men and one or more make morale 
checks while others use movement cards? 
A. No. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.12: COWER DISCARD: Regardless of the number of actions taken or cards discarded in a turn, the 
Japanese player may always discard printed or scenario-defined Cower cards in excess of his normal 
discard capability for that turn by showing the Cower cards to his opponent prior to discarding them. 
Remember that those cards are to be removed from the deck after their initial discard or used as a 
RNC/RPC are deemed "scenario-defined Cower Cards", as are Sniper cards for a player who has no 
Sniper capability.

--- PAGE 82 ---
82 
45.13 INFILTRATION: To reflect the Japanese emphasis on infiltration tactics, any Japanese attempt at 
infiltration is aided by an additional one column shift to the left. This shift is cumulative with that for 
jungle terrain and all other such shifts. 
45.2 SPLIT-ACTION CARDS: The Japanese player uses the Russian designated side of any 
Split-Action card. 
45.3 BUSHIDO: The Japanese "Samurai" or warrior code infused their men with a tremendous 
fighting spirit which far exceeded the will to resist of the combatants of other nationalities. This 
willingness to die for the Emperor is reflected in their higher relative morale as well as the following 
special rules.  
45.31: BROKEN SQUAD: Unlike other nationalities, the Japanese do not automatically lose when they 
have lost more than half of their Personality cards due to KIA and/or Rout [16.5]. A Japanese force 
does not break until it has lost at least 75% of its Personality cards (i.e. 10 out of 13 cards in the 
average scenario). 
45.32 ROUT: Although the Japanese are given the lowest Panic values in the game, this does not reflect 
a high likelihood that they will run away. To the contrary, these low Panic values reflect the greater 
likelihood that a pinned Japanese soldier would ignore pinning fire and continue aggressive pursuit of an 
enemy and be killed in the attempt. Consequently, the Rout Number is always two higher than the Panic 
value of that man. Therefore, most pinned Japanese removed by subsequent fire attacks [6.531] will not 
rout, but be considered KIA and earn more Victory Points for the opponent. 
45.33 CLOSE COMBAT: Any Japanese CC attack vs an AFV is subject to the +1 "heroic" CC modifier 
[28.81]. This modification is in addition to the effects of any Hero card(s) played at the same time. 
 
45.4 BANZAI: Any Japanese group containing a SL or ASL may declare a Banzai 
attack as its sole action for that player turn by playing a Movement card in the sideways 
mode (regardless of the presence of pinned men) and declaring the enemy group it is 
attacking. The Movement card can serve no other purpose (such as Lateral Transfer, Fording, Wire or 
Flanking Fire Removal, etc.); its sole effect can be to decalre a Banzai attack. A Banzai attack can be 
declared only against an adjacent or directly opposite group - regardless of the range thereto. Place a 
Banzai counter bearing the Group ID of the declared target group on the Banzai force to identify the 
attacking and target groups.  
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.4 Insert after the third sentence: "However, Banzai may not be declared against an enemy group that is blocked 
at the time the Banzai is declared." 
 
EXAMPLE: 
 
 
 
 
The Japanese player is the red troops. Japanese group A may not declare Banzai versus Enemy group B, because 
direct movement by Japanese group A to relative range 5 with Enemy group B is blocked by Enemy Group A.  
45.4 If a group on a Wire card declares Banzai, must they remove the Wire card with their next played Movement 
card or may they ignore the Wire and move forward? 
A. Their next Movement card play must be to remove the Wire. 
45.4 When a Banzai attack is declared, are crewed served weapons uncrewed at that time?  
A. Yes.  
Infiltration (20.23) requires loss of crewing, but CC doesn't. If uncrewed I assume then that Heavy Weapons (45.6) 
are left behind?.  
A. Correct.  
45.4 Is the initial sideways Movement card of the Banzai eligible for Terrain placement by an opponent? 
A. Yes. 
45.4 
SITUATION: British Group D is at Range number 2, stationary in open ground with a wire card on them. 
Japanese Group D is at Range number 2, and had declared a Banzai the turn before. This turn the Japanese 
player plays a movement card to Range number 3 (Relative Range 5 with the British group). The British on their 
turn discard a Stream on Japanese Group D. The Japanese then attack in Close Combat from the Stream and fail 
to defeat all of the British in Group D. 
If the British counterattack, are the Japanese penalized for being in a stream, or is the modifier for "Attacking in 
CC" only. 
A. Yes, the are penalized. 
Are the modifiers for Stream, Wire and Marsh in this situation for the attacker only? 
A. No, the modifiers apply to both sides. 
BLACK 
RED 
A[3] 
A[0] 
B[0] 
B[0]

--- PAGE 83 ---
83 
In the above situation, if the Japanese defeat all the British in the next turn, can they take over the British terrain 
(Open Ground with Wire on it)? 
A. Yes. 
CLARIFICATION: Rule 20.8 should be modified to say, "... is subject to capture by any group currently 
infiltrating (or Japanese Banzaiing) that..." 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.41 RALLY EFFECT: Declaring a Banzai attack automatically rallies all pinned men in that group at 
the time of the declaration (including the leader which delcared the Banzai attack). 
45.42 MOVEMENT EFFECT: Once a Banzai attack is declared, the Japanese may take no action with 
that group other than Close Combat or the play of Movement cards in a forward or sideways mode for 
as long as the Banzai attack is in effect. Furthermore, the Japanese player may not play a Movement 
card on any other group unless he has already played a Movement card on the Banzai group during that 
turn, or the Banzai group is currently engaged in Close Combat                                                         .  
45.421 The Japanese player cannot place terrain on a Banzai group, but his opponent can still discard 
terrain on a Banzai group to slow it down or alter the TEM of subsequent attacks vs the Banzai group or 
the CCV of members of the Banzai group [45.423]. Placement of such terrain does not cancel the 
Banzai attack, i.e. a Movement card need not be exposed to be considered in the act of Banzai. The 
Japanese player retains the right to reject terrain in the normal manner. 
45.422 In the next Japanese turn after a Banzai group has reached Relative Range 5 to its target, all 
members of its group perform Close Combat in that player turn as the sole action of that group for that 
player turn (assuming the target group is still at Relative Range 5) and all succeeding player turns until 
there are no longer opposing forces in the target group at Relative Range 5. Infiltration, Morale Check, 
and/or the play of additional Movement cards is not necessary; Close Combat is automatic. Even after a 
Banzai charge has resulted in Close Combat, the Banzai group is still subject to fire attacks from the 
target group and/or other enemy groups. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.422 May a Japanese man who is the sole survivor of a Banzai Group that has reached Relative Range 5 elect to 
use a Demo Charge that he possesses, instead of attacking in CC? 
A. No. 
What if there are other men in the group, would he have the option of using it? 
A. No. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.423 A Banzai group can perform Close Combat even while on a Stream, Marsh, or Wire card 
provided it is at Relative Range 5 to its target. However, the -1 Attack Strength Modification for Banzai 
personnel attacking from this terrain is applicable to the CCV of those units. If the Banzai group is not at 
Relative Range 5 to its target, it would have to play Movement cards normally to transit these obstacles 
so as to be able to close the range. A group cannot declare Banzai againsta Pillbox group [23.5]. A 
Banzai group (or berserk man - ignore [24.7]) can perform Close Combat even while on a Minefield 
provided it is at Relative Range 5 to its target. However, each such man must draw a black RNC prior to 
entering CloseCombat for the first time; if he draws a red RNC he is eliminated. After surviving one such 
RNC draw, the man need not draw again for the same minefield. 
45.43 DURATION: Once declared, a Banzai attack persists until all of the attacking or defending cards in 
the respective groups hve been eliminated or the game ends because one side or the other has been 
broken by the infliction of suffcient casualties [16.5]. The Japanese player has the option to cancel a 
Banzai attack only if the target group retreats or moves laterally out of range (i.e. the target group is no 
longer directly opposite or adjacent), or if another enemy group moves in such a way as to block the 
access of the Banzai group to the declared target. Cancellation of a Banzai attack does not require an 
action, but must be announced during the Japanese player turn. 
45.44 CONCEALMENT: The Japanese player may not use Concealed cards to aid a Banzai group; either 
on defense or in Close Combat. 
45.45 FIRE EFFECTS: A group which has declared Banzai is no longer subject to Pinning results [6.52]. A 
Pin result is treated as a KIA instead unless the man has been wounded. A Wound result can occur 
anytime the final attack strength is > the target Morale value and < 9. A check is then made under the 
7w column of the RNC which generated that final attack strength to determine if it equalled the Morale of 
the target and thus caused a wound. A wounded man continues in the Banzai attack normally although 
he engages in Close Combat with his pinned CCV [33.5]. 
45.46 VS ARMOR: Banzai attackers do not need to infiltrate in order to attack an AFV, but their Close 
Combat attack [28.81] is modified by the -3 modifier for a berserk attacker. 
45.47 COUNTERATTACK: Once the Banzai attack has resulted in Close Combat, any ordnance in the 
defending group may not attack the Banzai group as long as they remain at Relative Range 5 [20.54]. 
However, all unpinned men in the defending group attacked by the Banzai force may perform CC ( even 
if on a Stream, Marsh, or Wire card as per [45.423]) on the remaining Banzai attackers without 
infiltration provided the Banzai group is not attacked by Fire Combat from any source during that player 
turn.

--- PAGE 84 ---
84 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.47 The reference to 45.243' should be to 45.423'. 
45.47 Do the men in the target group of a Banzai attack, on their first turn after the first Close Combat by the 
Banzai group, need to play a movement card or pass a morale check to perform Close Combat versus the Banzai 
group? 
A. No.  
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.48 VICTORY CONDITIONS: A Banzai group cannot be used to satisfy any Victory Conditions pertaining 
to the reaching of a particular range number or Relative Range. The group must be released from 
Banzai status before it could satisfy those Victory Conditions. 
 
45.5 SPECIAL ARMS: All Japanese paratroops and Sergeants have pistols which can be used 
as a 1 FP weapon at Relative Range 5 if otherwise unarmed [19.4] provided it is used in conjunction 
with a Fire card with a black RNC. A pistol is not sufficient armament to cancel the Morale/Panic 
penalties of [19.4].  
45.51 CCV VALUES: The Japanese LMG and Machine Pistol weapons actually mounted a bayonet. 
Therefore, a Japanese LMG has a weapon CCV of 2 instead of 1 [20.6], and a Japanese Machine 
Pistol has a CCV of 4 instead of 3. 
45.52 MALFUNCTION: The Japanese LMG malfunctions on a red 5 or red 6 RNC and would malfunction 
automatically on a red 5 RNC without checking to see which weapon in the group malfunctioned (unless 
a FT, captured weapon, or another LMG is part of the same group). Note that the Japanese LMG is not 
considered a crewed weapon and therefore has no bracketed firepower or malfunction values. A Hero 
card can be used to double the unbracketed firepower values [10.45] of this weapon only if the Hero 
card is also a black RNC. 
 
45.6 HEAVY WEAPONS: The Japanese ATR and Medium Machine 
Gun were so heavy that they could not be moved by one man. Any group with 
these weapons must contain at least two unwounded men crewing those 
weapons in order to play a Movement card for any purpose unless they abandon their weapons. 
Abandonment of weapons does not require an action. The men crewing these weapons cannot also be 
armed with another weapon requiring crew for efficient use. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.6 This rule states that "heavy" weapons must be crewed in order to play a movement card on that group for any 
reason, else the weapon must be abandonment. If a weapon is "abandoned" but the group does not leave it's 
location (e.g. the movement card was to remove wire) is the weapon still available for acquisition? 
A. No (18.4).  
If a group is in the act of moving and a heavy weapon becomes uncrewed (e.g. the crewman is killed) can they still 
go to terrain w/o crewing the weapon? 
A. Yes, but the weapon is removed. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.7 DYO: The purchase cost of a Japanese radio is identical to that of a Russian radio of the same 
type [43.7], and the purchase cost of a Japanese AT Mine is equal to that of an ATMM. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
45.9 & 46.2 Are there different Unit Types for Marines?  
A. No.  
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
  
46. MARINES  
 
46.1 IDENTITY: For the scenarios of UP FRONT and BANZAI provided with the respective games, 
all American forces opposing the Japanese are considered Marines unless specified otherwise by 
Scenario Special Rule (hereafter referred to as SSR); scenarios vs Germans are considered to use 
regular U.S. Army troops. 
46.2 MORALE LEVEL: Marines are considered a semi-elite force in that they must start each 
scenario with a minimum morale value of 2. If a scenario using Marines lists a man with a Morale value 
of 1, a "2 Morale" and "3 Panic" chit should be placed near that man's card to reflect his higher morale. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
46.2 & 45.9  Are there different Unit Types for Marines?  
A. No.  
..................................................................................................................................................................................

--- PAGE 85 ---
85 
46.3 HAND CAPACITY: Marines have the same card hand capacity, discard capability, and 
other characteristics as American line troops. Marines are represented by the same American Personnel 
cards and weapon chits used in UP FRONT plus the two supplemental leader cards provided in BANZAI. 
46.4 FIRE TEAMS: In any scenario depicting the 1944-45 version of the Marine squad (with three 
BAR men), no BAR man may setup in the same group with another BAR man, nor may a BAR man 
Individually Transfer to another group containing a BAR man as long as there is another unpinned man 
in his own group which could make the transfer instead of him. This rule also applies to any nationality 
and scenario with two or more LMGs on the same side as such concentration would be unrealistic. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
46.4 CHANGE: Previous errata deleted. Second sentence of rule should read, "This rule also applies to any 
nationality and scenario with any combination of two or more BARs/LMGs/MMGs on the same side as such 
concentration would be unrealistic." 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
46.5 A Scenario OB listing of "#(Weapon)" for the Americans refers to one of the unnumbered spare 
Personnel cards provided in UP FRONT; the type to be used is specified by the weapon in parens. If the 
Morale/Panic values for such a card are not specified, they are always assumed to be Morale 2 and 
Panic 3. All scenarios depicting Marines prior to 1943 are assumed to be armed with Bolt-Action rifles 
instead of Semi-Automatic rifles. The only difference this entails in game terms is that their firepower 
would be halved for moving fire [12.11] and their DYO purchase value would be reduced by one. Any 
scenario using Marine leaders #42 and #43 which are armed with Springfield Rifles is assumed to occur 
prior to 1943; those scenarios not including these leaders are assumed to occur in 1943 or later. 
 
47. JUNGLE TERRAIN  
 
47.1 Due to the nature of war in the Pacific, much of the fighting which took place there occurred in 
jungle terrain where LOS and long range fire opportunities were extremely limited. Simulating this type 
of extemely close quarters combat would not be conducive to a very interesting game using the UP 
FRONT game system as nearly all long to medium range fire would be eliminated. Consequently, our 
depiction of jungle terrain is abstracted for playability to only those actions occuring on the fringe of 
jungle terrain where most fighting took place anyway. 
47.2 Jungle terrain comes into effect only when specified by SSR and only in 
scenarios in which the Japanese are facing British or Americans. In jungle 
scenarios, replace all Buildings cards with the Jungle cards. Jungle cards are 
treated as the equal of Woods cards in every way except that there are Jungle 
cards with a TEM of -3 (representing extremely dense jungle).  
 
 
 
 
...................................................................................................................................................................................... 
47.2 This rule can be misinterpreted as regards the status of Woods cards in a Jungle scenario. In the fifth line, 
after "Woods card" (the parenthetical reference to "extremely dense jungle"), the word "jungle" should be 
capitalized, denoting a new type of terrain card, a -3 Woods (Buildings) card. In Jungle scenarios, all -2 Buildings 
cards are considered to be Woods cards as well. 
In addition, the following sentence should be inserted at the end of Rule 47.2, after "in a Jungle scenario.": 
In any Jungle scenario, all Woods cards of any rating, whether printed -2 Woods cards, -2 Buildings cards serving 
as Woods, or -3 Buildings cards serving as Jungle, are considered to be "Jungle" cards for all purposes, especially 
including calculation of Aggressive Action Victory Points or determination of scenario-specific victory conditions. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
47.3 All Fire attacks (including ordnance and Demolition Charges, but excluding Flamethrowers and 
CC) which occur in a scenario using jungle rules must reduce their Fire Strength by one regardless of 
the terrain cards in play. 
47.4 Marsh cards cannot be refused in a Jungle scenario, and for that reason they 
cannot be placed on an AFV or Infantry Gun group. 
47.5 All infiltration attempts during a Jungle scenario use an additional one column 
shift to the left when checking for infiltration (in addition to the normal one column 
shift to the left for Woods terrain). 
47.6 An AFV must check for Bog every time it plays a Movement card and may 
not enter, or Overrun units in, -3 TEM Jungle terrains in a Jungle scenario.

--- PAGE 86 ---
86 
48. RANDOM REINFORCEMENTS  
 
48.1 Random Reinforcement is used in conjunction with the rules for Reinforcements [35.0] and can 
be used only when cited by SSR or at a cost of 50 points per Deck in a DYO scenario [43.0]. Note that 
a player could purchase the Random Reinforcement capability for only a fraction of a scenario's length, 
but in that case would be entitled to attempt to gain Random Reinforcement only during the Deck paid 
for. Reinforcements would not have to arrive during the Deck paid for. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.1 It appears that random reinforcements cost 50 points no matter which deck you purchase them for. Is this 
correct?  
A. No, normal deck multipliers apply. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.2 A player may attempt to earn Random Reinforcement immediately only during his next player turn 
following his opponent's drawing of a black 6 RNC (the card must have been used by him as a RNC; not 
as a RPC, action, or discard). If the player elects to try for reinforcements, he may do so by drawing a 
RNC as his sole action for that player turn. If he draws a red RNC he receives no reinforcements, but if 
he draws a black RNC he has succeeded in gaining reinforcement and immediately checks the Random 
Reinforcement Table to determine the extent of his reinforcements as per the RNC drawn. The 
reinforcements received do not appear on the table immediately, but must enter as per [35.3]-[35.4] in 
a subsequent turn. The player may also attempt Random Reinforcements in his first turn following the 
shuffle of a deck in which he was eligible for Random Reinforcement. However, in both cases, if a player 
does not attempt Random Reinforcement in his very next player turn he loses that capability until 
another opportunity (an opponent's drawing of a black 6 RNC or end of a qualifying deck) presents itself.  
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.2 If random reinforcements are purchased for the last deck of the game, there is no "free" check for Random 
Reinforcements at the shuffle of a deck in which the player was eligible for Random Reinforcements. Is this correct? 
A. This is correct. 
If so, shouldn't there be a discount for not having the best chance for reinforcements available? 
A. No, that's the price you pay for buying them so late in the game. 
48.2 In playing a scenario where Random Reinforcements are available throughout the entire game, a fire attack 
is made near the end of the first deck. Before the deck ends, a black 6 RNC is drawn and then the deck runs out 
with a few men left in the fire attack resolution. Is the player with Random Reinforcements now qualified for 2 
Random Reinforcement attempts? 
A. Yes. 
Can they be made during one turn? 
A. Yes, all Random Reinforcement checks must be made on the next turn (as in the above situation) or ALL 
opportunity is lost for receiving Random Reinforcements. 
Does this apply if two or even three black 6 RNCs are drawn during that attack? 
A. Yes, and if multiple reinforcements appear, they are combined into one reinforcing group. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.21 Russian Entrenchment attempts and Japanese Movement, although not counted as actions for 
discard purposes, are not allowed during a player turn in which that player attempts to gain Random 
Reinforcement. A Hero card is the only card which can be played during a player turn in which Random 
Reinforcement is attempted. 
48.22 No discards are allowed during a player turn in which Random Reinforcement is attempted except 
for the Japanese free Cower card discard capability. 
 
48.3 RANDOM REINFORCEMENT TABLE:  
 RNC 
 BRITISH 
 GERMAN 
 JAPANESE
 RUSSIAN 
 U.S. 
 FRENCH 
 ITALIAN 
 0 
 Sniper 
 Sniper 
 Sniper 
 Sniper 
 Sniper 
 Sniper 
 Sniper 
 1 
 8,9 
 8,9 
 11,12 
 24,25 
 11,12 
10,11 
 8,17 
 2 
 10,22,24 
 9,10,24 
 4,13,25 
 21-23 
 17,20,21 
12,15,23 
18,19,20 
 3 
 8,22,25,* 
 10,19,24,* 
 15,18,25,* 
 20-22,* 
 20,25,26,* 
16,24,17,* 
22,23,24,* 
 4 
 8,22,24,25,*  8,24,26,27,*  15,20,25,26,*  19,23-25,* 
 20-23,* 
18,22,19,20,* 
 22,18,17,23,* 
 5 
 34 
 30 
 37 
 31 
 31 
35 
31 
 6 
 35 
 39 
 34 
 34 
 34 
 31 
33 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........................................... 
48.3 & 15.1 When reinforcements include an ASL, does he function as an auxiliary ASL, in case of the loss of the 
original SL or ASL? 
A. Yes. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………...........................................

--- PAGE 87 ---
87 
48.31 CHOICE: A reinforcement entry listed only as a "*" entitles the recipient to choose any one 
Personnel card available other than a MMG, AT Gun, or AFV. If he chooses a man armed with a rifle or 
MP he may equip that man with a secondary weapon such as a DC, PF, or ATMM. If he chooses a 
blank Personnel card, he must use Morale/Panic chits to reflect a Morale/Panic rating of 3/4 respectively 
regardless of nationality. Whatever his choice, the player must make it immediately; he may not wait 
until he actually brings the reinforcements into play. 
48.32 SUBSTITUTES: If a designated reinforcement personnel card is not available because it is already 
in play or that weapon is not available during the year the scenario is being played, substitution is made 
according to the following order of priorities: A personnel card with the same weapon worth the same or 
less points as listed on the unavailable reinforcement. A personnel card with another weapon worth the 
same or less points as listed on the unavailable reinforcement.  
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.32 If all the men called for by the Random Reinforcement Table are already in the game, can you use a man 
that is an SL (or an ASL)? 
A. Yes, and that man could function as the SL if all of the original SL/ASL in the scenario are eliminated. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.33 ENTRY: Random Reinforcement may enter at Group E or Z. Reinforcements which enter with a 
Movement card which is a red RNC must enter as Group Z. Reinforcements which enter with a 
Movement card which is a black RNC must enter as Group E. If a Group E or Z is already in place thus 
blocking entry of reinforcements along that edge, the reinforcements may not enter along that edge until 
the blocking group has been moved or eliminated. Reinforcements may not use Individual Transfer to 
enter play. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.33 Do you have to bring in Random Reinforcements into play in the order in which they were obtained? 
A. Yes. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.33 & 17.6 Are reinforcements, entering in a sideways mode (without the Flanking Fire card of 35.3) at Range 
number 0 and behind an adjacent group A or D, entitled to Flanking Fire advantages? 
A. Yes. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
48.4 SNIPER: A Sniper Reinforcement can be used to regain a lost Sniper capability, or used to 
gain Sniper capability for a player who did not start the scenario with that capability. If the player still has 
a Sniper capability when he gains a Sniper reinforcement, he may attack twice for each Sniper card he 
plays (or three times if he gains sniper reinforcement twice, etc). Multiple sniper attacks using the same 
Sniper card must draw a separate RPC to determine the recipient of each attack (unless there is only 
one card in the only attacked group). This dual Sniper attack capability can also be used in DYO 
scenarios where additional snipers are purchased.  
48.41 The Sniper player has the option to split his multiple Sniper attack between different groups or 
apply all shots against the same group, but must predesignate the group(s) to be attacked before the 
first attack is resolved. 
48.42 A successful Sniper Check [14.4] eliminates only one sniper, not a player's entire multiple sniper 
capability. Each group attacked by a sniper is still allowed the option of only one Sniper Check as its 
sole action for that turn regardless of the number of times it was attacked by one or more Sniper cards 
during that turn. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........................................... 
48.42 & 14.4 If a group is attacked by more than one Sniper, which RNC must it beat in a Sniper Check? 
A. The lowest absolute value. Example: Against multiple sniper results of a black 2 and a red 4, the affected group 
would perform a Sniper Check using a value of 2. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........................................... 
48.43 Sniper reinforcements do not have to be brought into play by a Movement card [35.3] as do other 
reinforcements. They are automatically available in the next player turn. 
 
49. SOLITAIRE PLAY  
 
49.1 Although UP FRONT is designed as a competitive game for two players or teams, it can be 
modified to allow entertaining solitaire play with only a few slight changes to the existing rules of play.  
49.11 All actions in a player turn must be predesignated before any are resolved. The player is not 
allowed to see the outcome of one action before declaring any others they will make during that player 
turn. 
49.12 Both hands are placed face up on the table. However, all cards drawn to fill a depleted hand are 
placed face down and not revealed until that side's turn or the opposing side has attacked or discarded 
a terrain card on one of its moving groups (whichever comes first). This usually results in each side 
having a number of unknown cards in its hand which may be played at the last minute to lessen an 
attack or influence a decision to accept or reject a terrain card.

--- PAGE 88 ---
88 
DESERT WAR 
 
50. ITALIANS  
 
50.1 HAND CAPACITY: Italian Line Troops have a four-card hand capacity with a maximum 
discard ability of two cards per turn, but discards are allowed only in those player turns in which they 
take no action. 
50.2 SPLIT CARDS: The Italian player must play all Split Action cards as Cower cards. 
50.3 FIREPOWER PENALTY: The Italians suffered from poor morale brought about primarily 
by terrible leadership and were consequently renowned for their unwillingness to actively participate in 
firefights. Therefore, the Italian player must always have firepower factors in excess of those normally 
required to make any attack (not applicable to ordnance). 
50.4 BROKEN SQUAD: The Italian infantry section varied significantly in that it was composed 
of 18 men broken down into a LMG group and a supporting rifle group. The Italian fighting spirit was fair 
when well-led by commanders such as Rommel, and dismal otherwise. Consequently, an Italian squad 
will break when it has lost more than 40% of its Personality cards as opposed to more than 50% (i.e. 
eight out of 18 cards in the average scenario).  
50.41 SURRENDER: Due to their low Rout numbers, Italians will be taken prisoner more 
readily than other nationalities [32.12]. However, a special surrender rule also applies to 
them if all members of an Italian Infantry group (not Infantry Guns) are pinned regardless 
of their Relative Range to the enemy. When this condition occurs, place a Surrender chit 
on the Group marker. That group may not move, fire, or rally (even with a Hero) unless 
relieved or fired upon. Once a surrendered group has been attacked, no Italian group is again eligible for 
Surrender in that scenario. A surrendered group can be relieved only by Individual Transfer of an 
unpinned man to that group whereupon the "surrender" marker is removed. Once there, the previously 
surrendered group is eligible to rally normally, and if rallied, may fire and move again. A surrendered 
group is captured automatically bu any Infiltrator of its group. Standard Prisoner rules [32.2] then apply. 
Infiltration of a surrendered group does not require a Morale Check and is always resolved under the "1" 
column of the RPC. A surrendered group does not count towards Broken Squad requirements until it is 
captured. Even though some Italian Panic values are lower than their Morale values, their Panic values 
are never allowed to drop more than one less than their Morale values during a Campaign Game 
[42.44]. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............................................ 
50.41 & 10.3 Can a surrendered Italian group or parts thereof voluntarily panic prior to being captured? 
A. No. 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
50.41 Add to 3rd sentence after "occurs": "at the end of a turn". Add to 4th sentence after "move": "(nor play 
terrain)". Add: "(including by snipers)" after "fired upon". 
.................................................................................................................................................................................. 
50.41, 16.5, 32, Broken Squad, Prisoners, and Surrender 
Prisoners DO count as casualties toward the calculation of a Broken Squad. 
Groups which have surrendered but have not been captured do not count as casualties toward the calculation of a 
Broken Squad. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........................................... 
50.42 VS RUSSIANS: The Italians were not as eager to surrender to the not-so-tender mercies of the 
Russians. Consequently, the Surrender and 40% Broken Squad rules do not apply in scenarios vs 
Russians and all Italian infantry Panic values are increased by one. 
50.6 LMG: Like all LMGs in the game which are not considered a crew-served weapon, a Hero card 
can be used to double the LMG's firepower only if the Hero card is also a black RNC. 
50.7 HEAVY WEAPONS: The Italian ATR and MMG were too heavy to be moved by one man. 
Any group with these weapons must contain at least two unwounded men crewing these weapons to 
play a Movement card for any purpose unless they abandon those weapons (no action required). 
Neither crewman may carry Secondary Weapons or be armed with another weapon requiring a crew for 
efficient use. 
50.8 DYO: The purchase cost of an Italian radio in a DYO scenario is identical to that of a Russian 
radio of the same strength [43.7] when using Elite forces, and half of that cost otherwise. The Italians 
may use any Russian radio card. 
50.9 PARTISANS: The Italians may use Partisan rules [37.0] if purchased for a post-1943 DYO 
scenario.

--- PAGE 89 ---
89 
51. FRENCH  
 
51.1 HAND CAPACITY: French Line Troops have a six-card hand capacity with a maximum 
discard capability of one card per turn, but discards are allowed only in those player turns in which they 
take no action. This limited discard capability reflects the outmoded French tactical doctrine 
emphasizing static defense and discouragement of individual initiative. 
51.2 SPLIT CARDS: The French player uses the German Split Action cards. 
51.3 PARTISANS: The French player may use Partisan rules [37.0] if purchased for a DYO 
scenario. 
51.5 DYO: The purchase cost of a French radio in a DYO scenario is identical to that of a German 
radio of the same strength [43.7] unless using Reservists in which case the cost is halved. The French 
may use any German Radio card. 
51.6 CHAR B1: The Char B1 mounted two guns; a 47mm in the 
turret and a 75mm mounted low in the hull. The first set of Effect Numbers 
are for the 75mm, the second set for the 47mm. The player can fire only 
one Gun (or MG) in the tank per turn. The 75mm is treated as an Assualt 
Gun with all the limitations [28.2] that involves. In addition, the 75mm To 
Hit numbers are always one less than those for the 47mm. The 75mm may 
not be fired if the tank is Hull Down. 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………............................................. 
27.1 & 51.6 Can the two different guns of a Char B1 each acquire a different target and maintain acquisition 
while the other fires at a different group?   
A. No.   
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............................................. 
 
51.7 BROKEN SQUAD: The French squad breaks when it has lost half (rather than more than 
half) of its Personality cards (i.e. six out of 12 cards in the average scenario). 
 
 
52. DESERT RULES  
 
 
52.1 TERRAIN ALTERATIONS: Due to the vast difference in the terrain of the Western 
Desert compared to that of Europe, the following extensive changes to the terrain rules are required. 
When using the Desert rules, all Special Rules of previous scenarios pertaining to removal of Buildings, 
Woods, Stream, or Minefield cards are ignored. All other rules remain the same. In desert scenarios, 
replace Hill, Stream, Marsh, Buildings, Wall and Woods cards as per below: 
52.11 MINEFIELD: Minefields were used extensively in the desert but were used more to deny access 
than to cause casualties. As such, they were almost always well-marked, and this, in turn, led to 
frequent use of "fake" minefields; i.e. marking an area as mined which in reality was not. Consequently, 
minefields are always in effect when using the Desert rules. In the desert, however, a player can always 
reject a Minefield card discarded upon him [7.3], but if he accepts it the Minefield may in fact be real or 
a fake. The accepting player must immediately draw a RNC to determine if the minefield is real and 
functions normally. If he draws a 0 or a red RNC, the minefield is a fake and is imediately flipped to the 
Open Ground side. 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............................................. 
52.11 & 24.6 Are minefield cards removed from the deck in a Desert scenario if rejected by the opponent or 
accepted and subsequently proved fake?   
A. No.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………............................................. 
 
52.12 HILLS: High ground in the desert is usually a soft dune crest or rocky 
outcropping so entrenchment on a hill is successful only when drawing a black 1 
RNC. Otherwise, Hill rules are unchanged.

--- PAGE 90 ---
90 
 
 
52.13 STREAMS/WADIS: Stream cards are considered Wadis and cannot be rejected. 
Wadis do not have to be forded but can only be left by placement of a sideways 
Movement card. Wadis modify attacks against them by -1. There is no firepower or 
weapon usage restrictions for occupying a Wadi. Otherwise, Stream rules are 
unchanged. 
 
 
 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........................................... 
52.13 & 20.24 Can a man in a Wadi infiltrate normally or only with a Movement card?   
A. Only with a movement card.  
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………........................................... 
52.14 BUILDINGS/ESCARPMENT: All -3 Buildings are replaced by 
the “Cower” cards and are removed from the game as they are 
discarded from players' hands or drawn as RNC/RPC draws. -2 
Building 
cards 
are 
considered 
rocky 
outcroppings 
or 
Escarpments. There is no firepower or weapon usage 
restrictions for occupying an Escarpment. Entrenching is not 
allowed in an Escarpment. Vehicles may not enter or Overrun 
an Escarpment. All other Building rules apply. 
 
 
52.15 MARSH/SOFT SAND: Marsh cards represent Soft Sand and cannot be rejected. 
There is no firepower or weapon usage restrictions for occupying Soft Sand. 
Entrenching is not allowed in Soft Sand. There is no terrain effect due to Soft Sand 
for incoming or outgoing attacks except that the effect of all HE attacks vs Soft 
Sand is reduced by one. This does not qualify Soft Sand as terrain which will 
"reduce the strength of a fire attack" for purposes of ending a scenario. Vehicles 
may enter Soft Sand but must make an immediate Bog Check with a two-column 
shift to the left. Any Infantry Gun in Soft Sand must take an immediate Morale 
Check upon entry and immediately after playing any Movement card while still in 
Soft Sand. All other Marsh rules apply. 
 
52.16 WOODS/OASIS: Woods cards are treated as Cower cards and removed from 
play as discarded or drawn as RPC/RNC. However, a player with a Woods card 
may attempt to play it as a terrain card. After placement, he must draw a black RNC 
for the terrain card to be valid and remain in play as an Oasis. If he draws a red 
RNC, the Woods card is treated as a mirage and removed leaving the group still 
moving. An Oasis card successfully played may remain in the game until 
subsequently unsuccessfully played in the manner described above or 
discarded/drawn as a RPC/RNC. An Oasis is the equivalent of Woods in every 
respect except that defenders thereon receive an increase of +1 to their Morale and 
Panic ratings due to secure water supply. 
 
52.17 WALL/RIDGE: Walls are considered a low ridge but all Wall rules apply 
normally. 
 
 
 
 
 
52.2 ENTRENCHING: Entrenching in the desert was more difficult due to the rocky nature of the 
surface or fine sand covering. Therefore, entrenching requires a 1 RNC rather than a 0 RNC. 
52.3 MALFUNCTIONS: All weapons tended to malfunction more frequently in the desert due to 
the difficulty of keeping them clean. Therefore, all malfunction numbers have their breakdown range 
increased by one; i.e., 6 becoming 5-6, 5-6 becoming 4-6. 
52.4 SANDSTORMS: Violent windstorms in the desert were fairly common and brought all 
fighting to a halt due to reduced visibility and clogged weapons. Whenever a sandstorm occurs, the 
scenario immediately ends and is decided by points scored up to that point. Players must check for

--- PAGE 91 ---
91 
sandstorms at the end of each deck by drawing a RNC. If the RNC is a red 6, the scenario ends at that 
point. 
 
53. SCENARIOS  
The French and Italians can be added to most existing UP FRONT/BANZAI scenarios by inserting an 
appropriate force. Italians may historically face the British, Americans, Russians, and French in that 
order. The French are limited to use against the Germans and Italians although they could be 
considered Vichy French and used vs the Americans and British. They also fought briefly vs the 
Japanese in September 1940, and again in March 1945, in Indo-China. Desert rules can be imposed or 
not at the player's discretion with a minimum of historical reference. The possession of Anit-Tank type 
Secondary Weapons is limited by scenario definition [21.11]. In DYO scenarios, these are limited to a 
maximum of one per squad for the U.S./Britian/France, two per squad for all Axis powers, and three per 
squad for the Russians. Radios are not considered an Anti-Tank weapon. No squad may have more 
than one Demolition Charge. Infantry Guns and AFVs are not counted against these limits.