--- PAGE 1 [OCR] ---
FR
UP
THEAVALON HILLGAMECOMPANY'STRADEMARK FOR ITS GAME OF WWII MANTOMANCOMBAT
RMacGoWan

--- PAGE 2 [OCR] ---
1. INTRODUCTION-
rules for the first time you will find frequent parenthetical references to numbered n les
These rules are ptesented in a Programmed Instruction format so that players need
sections or terms which have not yet been defined, For the most part, thee referenoes
not read the entire rulebook to begin play. At various points in the rulebook you wilt be
should be ignored during the initial reading unless the reader has a specific questiom
told to stop reading and play a specific scenario which uses the rules you've read up to
about the statement made in that sentence. They will often refer to fules or terips which
that point. After having played that scenario sufficiently to feel comfortable with the
have not yet been defined for the reader. A quick glance at the glossaryfinde wd
mechanics of play thus far presented, you should read further to learn more of the game
answer most questions, but they will make their appearance later anyway aad art ot
system. Feel free to double back to the original scenarios and play them with the more
necessary to play the game at your current level. Only after reading the entire rulebook
advanced rules, Even the first scenario becomes a uniquely different experience when
should you be fully versed in the meaning of every rule.
played under the full effects of the entire game system. In the course of reading these
INDEX & GLOSSARY
Play Balance
22
Flamethrower.
.28.46
Prepare To Play .
.3
14
Flank Shot . .
Acquisition,Weapon
Prisoner
.32
Fording -- +
.27
.8.53
Acquisition, Target .
Promotion.
42.46
Action Capabitity
.42
PSK (Panzerschreck)
.30.2
.2.2
Action Cards .
Pursuit . 
42.7
-16.1
Greater Than( >)
Action Deck
Greater Than or Egual To ( 2 ]
.5.61
Adjacent .-
.39.3
Green .
R (Repair) . - . R (Range Number).
.5.4
Advance .
19.3
Group Creation
.17.9
.28
Radio
AFV (Armored Fighting Vehicle) .
-41.7.40.3
-17.7
Rally . .
Group Transfer
.37.5
Ambush
.10.2
+ 32.2
Guard. .
Random Position Numbers
.3.6,13
.2.2
Artificial Terrain Cards .
.39.2
Guards .
.40
Real Time
.16.31
Artillery
.8.2
Gully
Reinforcements
-15.1
.35
ASL (Assistant Squad Leader)
Rejecting Terrain
.28.2
.7.32
Assault Guns . .
-11.4, 18.22
Replacement .
42.4
Assistant Crewman
.3.5
.31
Hand Capacity
Retreat . .
.5.4
ATMM (Anti-Tank Magnetic Mine)
.4.5
Retrograde
.30.6
Hand Refill
.5.50
ATR (Anti-Tank Rifle)
Hero. .
10.4,29.42,33.9,28.421
RNC (Random Number Card)
.2.2
.8.3.16.42
RPC (Random Position Card)
Hill
.14.6
.5.61
Rout .
Horizontal Distance
.30.2
.6.531
Bazooka .
.28.9
RR (Relative Range) .
Hull Down .
.3.6
Berserk .
20.9,28.81-82
Blocking Position
-5.7
28.52-.53
Bog .
17.7
Scenarios 
.37.6
Identity Change
.2.4
Booby Trap . -
.34
13.243
Sequence of Play
IG (InfantryGun)
Breeze
28.44
Sideways .
- 16.5
IM (Immobilize)
.5.4
Broken Squad
8.8
17.8,20.8
Individual Transfer.
SL (Sguad Leader)
- 15.1
Brush .
20.2,28.4312
.8.6
Smoke .
INF (Infiltration)
3.6.13.2, 16.42,25.7-.8
Buildings - -
.3.6
Sniper
.28.43
Initial Terrain
. 14
BU (Button Up)
.2.2
Sniper Check .
Inventory Number
.14.4
Split Actions
.2.21
Squad Capacity.
42
21.11
Campaign Game
Ss .
.39.6
.20.8
KIA (Killed In Action)
Capture(of Terrain)
.6.51
Stream .
..8.5
Capture (of Weapons)
.20.74
Stun +
.28.45
Cards .
.2
Sw (Secondary weapon).
17.1
.21.1
Casualty (KiA,Wound,Rout,Prisoner)
Lateral Flanking Fire
. 20.1
Lateral Group Transfer
CC (Close Combat)
.17.7.20.56
.20.52
LATW (Light Anti-Tank Weapon) .
CCEntry - +
.30
27
.28.8
Less Than ( < )
CCVSAFV
Target Acguisition .
.20.6
Team Play . .
.41
CCV (Close Combat Value).
Less Than or Egual To ( S J
TEM (Terrain Effect Modifier)
28.431
.8
CE(Crew Exposed)
LMG (Light Machine Gun)
Terrain Capture .
.15.5
41.3
20.8
COM (Commissar)
LOS(Line ofSight).
Terrain Placement
-15
.5.1
Command Control
Terrain & Movement Fire Modifiers
28.431
7, 22.1
Commander Killed
Malfunction .
.9
Time Limits .
.16.3
Concealment
.8.4
Marsh
To Hit Frequency (IH)
.39.1
.25.6
Conscripts -
MGFS (Machine Gun Fire Strength)
To Hit Procedure
.2.22
.25.3
Cower Card .
.3.6.24
Troop Types .
.11
Minefield .
Crew Served weapons .
.26.5
Critical Hit
MMG (Medium Machine Gun)
.20.21
Morale Check .
Mortar . .
- .26
Unarmed 
19.4
16.2
Movement .
..5.1
Unbalanced Position
Deck .
.15.6
.21.2
Moving Fire .
12,22.1,33.2
Demolition Charge .
-5.61
Directly Opposite +
.4.3
Victory Condition Fulfillment
Discard Capability
.16.42
NA (Not Allowed or Not Applicable)
.3.5
Victory Points .
17.3
Discard Pile . 
.16.4
Natural Flanking Fire
.3.5
.38
Draw Pile. .
Night .
Vs (Versus)
.43
Volksgrenadiers
DYO(Design Your Own)
.39.5
Voluntary Panic .
.10.3
Observation
.38.2
EL (Eliminate)
5.2.8.1,20.37
w (with) w wo (without)
Open Ground
.8.31
Elevated Fire .
Walls
.7.3
.8.9
Opponent's Terrain Placement .
..8.9
Weapon Acquisition
-25
Encircled .
Ordnance
.18
.17.6
Weapon Capture
.29.41.28.4
Encirclement .
.20.74
OT AFV (Open TopAFV)
Weapon Exchange .
.16.42, 36
.29
Entrenchments .
OvR (Overrun)
.18.21
Weapon Loss
EX (Example)
.18.1
Wire.
EXC (Exception)
3.6. 13.3. 16.42
15.53
Withdrawal
.42.6
Execution
Panic (PAN)
.6.53
Woods .
.8.7
Paratroops
.39.4
Wounds
.37
.33
Partisans . 
17. 22.6
FF(Flanking Fire).
Pass
.4.6
.6.1
Fire Attack
Personality Cards
2.1.2.3
+6.5
.30.3
Fire Combat Resolution .
PF (Panzerfaust)
x (Malfunction on red To Hit or initial resolution
+40.2
RNCegualto
.28.42
Fire Mission .
.19.5
Pinned(AFV .
.6.4
++6.52
Fire Strength
Pinned (Men)
X# Malfunction on any red resolution RNC equal to
-6.2
Firepower (FP) .
23,20.36
Pillbox . .
.19.5

--- PAGE 3 [OCR] ---
2. THE CARDS-
groups, place terrain, and play first. Players should remember that
although most scenarios list forces for each of the three nationalities in the
2.1 There are two types of cards in the game. The regulation-sized playing
game, each scenario is usually played by only two nationalities at a time-a
cards which create the flow of play are called Action cards. The other cards
German player against either a Russian or American player. In addition, all
are a representative sample of the actual men and Armored Fighting
scenarios which do not depict some type of meeting engagement will list
Vehicles which engaged in WWIl combat and are called Personatity cards.
two forces for each player; one to be used if that player takes the offensive
A player's forces are composed of certain Personality cards which engage
role, and the other to be used if he plays the defensive role. Defensive forces
in combat and maneuver through the medium of the Action cards.
are listed inside a barbed wire entangled rectangle. A player never uses both
2.2 Each Action card contains an illustration and the name of its function,
forces in the same scenario. Scenarios with assigned offensive and defen-
a quantitative modifier or strength, and, brief notes regarding its main
sive forces actually have four different variations of the same theme:
uses. In addition, each Action card contains a large black or red number
meeting engagement scenarios only two. Adjustments to the Action card
ranging from O-6 in its upper right hand corner. This is the Random
deck are listed after the (
) symbol. The player who must form his
Number used to resolve chance situations whenever one occurs, and has
nothing to do with the actual play of an Action card. In addition, each card
groups, place terrain, and play first is shown after the *ist symbol. A
bayonet (r
 ) after the "*Ist*'symbol indicates that the side with the
has a row of io black or red numbers printed along its bottom which ran-
offensive role must play first; a barbed wire entanglement symbolizes the
domly indicate a certain numbered position (called Random Position
defensive side. The number following the sand timer symbol (
Numbers) within a group to receive a particular action. The blue numbers
printed directly above the Random Position Numbers are used only to
indicates the number of complete plays through the Action
assist in readily identifying the Random Position Numbers in relation to
Deck which comprise the scenario Time Limit.
each other, Both the Random Number and Random Position Numbers are
ignored except when drawing a card from the Draw Pile solely for the
purpose of generating a Random Number or Random Position (see 14.6). .
3. PREPARE TO PLAY-
Lastly, each Action card has a small blue number called an Inventory
3.1 Players begin play by selecting a
Number in the upper left hand corner which is used solely to give each
scenario from among those provided or
Action card an individual identity should the owner need to check for a
creating one themselves as per rule sec-
missing card. Each type of Action card is illustrated in the specific rule sec-
tion 43. Sides are chosen with each player
tion which defines its use.
taking the indicated Personality cards
and setting the remainder aside. The
[NOTE: Replacement cards and other game parts are available for purchase direct from Avalon Hil.
4517 Harford Rd, Baltimore, MD 21214, Send a self-addressed, stamped envelope with your request
Time chit is placed (with the Deck I ** side face up) on the Discard tray.
for a current Replacement Parts List. When replacing Action cards, the minimum order is the 54 card
[AIXXXX
deck in which the card appears.1
[BI XXXXXX
[A] XXXxX
Random Number
[B] XXX
ICI xxxx
CONCEALED4
Inventory Control Number
2.21 SPLIT ACTIONS: Some action cards are divided
3.2 The player indicated by the scenario as having the first play now sits
by a diagonal black line separating two different
opposite his opponent and places his Personality cards face up in front of
actions by nationality. A player may use this card only
himself in two to four groups of two to ten cards each (EXC: AFv's and
for the action listed on his side of the card's diagonal
IG's, see 28.IiJ. Groups should be separated somewhat to make it easy to
line as indicated by the nationality symbol(s) printed
distinguish one from another. Each group is identified from the player's
on that side of the card. If the same nationality is listed
left to right as Group A, B, C, and D. The opposing player now sets up his
on both sides of the diagonal line, the card may be
groups, attempting to place them directly opposite his opponent's groups
used for either action, but not both.
as much as is possible. A player may not leave gaps in his setup; his first
group must be Group A, his second must be Group B, etc. For example, if
26
Random Position Numbet
61
32
29
the German player chooses to have two groups and the American player
RALLY 2
three, American Groups A and B would be set up directly opposite the like
RALLY 3
[EX: Action card #162 can be used as a
designated German Groups, with the American Group C set up adjacent to
Concealed -l card by all three
nationalities, but as a Movenent card
his Group B and directly opposite no German group. Once play begins.
by the Russians only. Action card #42
these groups may be altered only by losses due to combat and individual
has no diagonal line so it can be used
transfers from one group to another f17.8, 20.8/, although the identity of a
as a Rally 2 card by all three
group can change (see 17.7). Each group will act independently of any
nationalities, but it can be used as a
Radio card only by the U.S. or Rus
other group during the course of play and any Action cards placed on a
sian player. Action card #s2 can be
group will affect only the Personality cards actually in that group. With
used as a Rally 3 or Radiocard by the
this and the scenario Victory Conditions in mind, players should choose the
U.S. and German player only, and as
a Concealed -2 card by the Russian
composition of each group and the total number and size of groups care-
1214
player only.1
143472
262
fully at the outset.
3.3 Each man within a group likewise assumes a position within thal group
2.22 COWER CARD: Any card defined by a
relative to the others. The lefimost Personality in each group occupies the
SMOKE
scenario as unusable by one or both players is con-
*I** position. The Personality card to his right occupies the *"2** position.
sidered a Cower card for that player. A Cower card
and so on up to *"1o* for a ten man group. This position within the group
has no value to its owner fother than inverted use as
changes every time a man occupying a lower numbered position within the
an Open Ground Terrain card: see 8. J. It nonetheless
group is eliminated. For example, if the second man in a five man group is
must be counted as part of the owner's hand until it
eliminated, the third man assumes position 2, the fourth man position 3.
can be legally discarded (4.3) per that player's discard
and the fifth man position 4. Men may switch positions within a group dur-
capability.
ing their player turn but must do so as the sole action of that group for that
[EX: Action card w13o is always a Cower card for the Russian player
turn. Such a position switch is included as part of any successful weapon
but can be used as a Smoke card by the erman and U.S. players.!
acquisition (18.2) or assistant crew assignment (11.12).
50
2.3 There are numerous types of Personality cards.
3.4 Place a range 0 chit at the head of each group to identify its starting
but in the Basic Game we will limit ourselves to those
Relative Range to opposing groups.
representing single men, An example is illustrated below.
Ranki 
Name:+.
Pinned Status:
Special Function:
3.5 The Action deck is shuffled and each player is dealt a full hand face
down. The German player receives five cards. His opponent receives six
ID:-
F18 SGTALLEN
SET ALLIN
cards if he commands an American force, or four cards if he commands a
Weapon
Russian force. Place the remainder of the Action deck face down in the
card tray to serve as a Draw Pile. As Action cards are used and/or dis-
Close Combat Yalue:
carded, they are placed face down in the Discard Pile of the card tray. Each
Armed/Unarmed:
player's cards are kept concealed from his opponent until played. (To
avoid possible confusion, a labelled tape should be used to identify that sec-
Point Value:
PANIC 2
hhupid Hand Capacty
tion of the tray used for discards.)
HOMALE S
ROAT- P HNE >7
FRONT
BACK
3.6 INITIAL TERRAIN: The player specified by the scenario as having
Defense Values:
the first play now has the option of placing one Terrain card in his posses-
2.4 SCENARIOS: All scenarios are composed of seven basic component
sion on one of his or his opponent's groups. Note: an opponent cannot re-
parts: Type, Forces, Action Deck Composition, Special Rules, Victory
ject a Terrain card (7.32) during Prepare for Play. The opposing player
Conditions, Time Limit, and a declaration of the player who must form his
then has the option of playing one Terrain card he has in a similar manner

--- PAGE 4 [OCR] ---
except that he may not place his Terrain card on a group which already has
S. MOVEMENT & RANGE DETERMINATION-
one in play. The first player may now play another Terrain card (if he has
5.1 Movement is accomplished by playing Move-
one) on any of his or his opponent's groups not atready containing one.
MOVEMENT
ment cards and, to a lesser extent. Terrain cards. Any
Players continue to alternate placement of terrain in this manner, one card
+1
group may place a Movement card provided it does
at a time. until neither player has further Terrain cards or the inclination to
not currently contain a pinned Personality card. A
use them. All remaining groups without Terrain cards begin play in Open
Terrain card may be placed on any group feven one
Ground. Then each player, in turn. draws as nany cards as he just played
containing pinned Personality cards) provided it
so as to once again have a full hand (up to his nationality limit). Artificiaf
already has a Movement card of sorne type in place
Terrain cards fWire, Smoke), and/or inverted cards used as Open Ground
which is not already covered by another Terrain or
cards, and scenario defined Cower cards cannot be placed prior to play.
Wire card.
The game is now ready to begin.
5.2 Each group is assumed to occupy the terrain
shown on the last Terrain card placed on that group
131
unless it has two Movement cards in play (in which
case they are in Open Ground). If no Terrain card is present fan occurrence
only at game start or upon the entrance of reinforcements), the terrain
4. SEOUENCE OF PLAY-
occupied is assumed to be Open Ground. The terrain a group currently
4.1 The game begins with the player specified by the scenario taking his
occupies is a factor in resolving any fire attacks made against that group
play first. [In Design Your Own fhenceforth referred to as D YOj scenarios
(6.42/, and can occasionally affect attacks (6.41) and movement (8.42.
the player having spent less points on the construction of his force gets to
8.53j by that group as well. See also 7.4.
move first with ties resolved by RNC draw.J When he is finished, the
5.3 Changing the current Terrain card that a group occupies fincluding
opposing player takes his turn. Player turns are then altefnated until one of
placement of a Terrain card on a group without one) first reguires the
the participants achieves his Victory Conditions as fequired by the scenario
presence of a placed Movement card above the last occupied Terrain card.
in play or the Time Limit expires.
Since only one Movement or Terrain card may be played in a single group
4.2 ACTION CAPABILITY: A player turn consists of a player perform-
per player turn rExC: 35.4), it will take at least two turns for a player to
ing a maximum of one action in each group of Personality cards he con-
change the terrain of a group once play begins (assuming the availability of
trols. He need not predesignate those actions; i.e. he may observe the
the necessary Terrain and Movement cards, and non-intervention by the
results of one group's attack before deciding what action, if any, to take
opponent).
with another group. There are five types of possible actions.
5.4 Movement cards are also used to change the relative distance between
4.21 Perform movement by playing a Terrain or Movement card on a
opposing groups. Each Movemnent card can be placed with the circled * + **
group (5.1j. Only one card may be played on each group (EXC: 35.4j.
at the top of the illustration to represent an Advance forward movement).
or turned upside down to show the circled "_** at the top of the inverted
4.22 Make a fire attack by playing one or more Fire cards, and selecting the
illustration to fepresent a Retreat (reverse movement), or sideways to rep-
group which is firing and its target group f6.I).
resent lateral movement. By playing a Movemnent card in the forward mode
4.z3 Reverse the status of pinned men by playing a Rally card on their
r-+ *y the group is moving in a relative direction toward the opposing
group (10.2). Only one such card can be played as a single action per group
player, and increasing its range chit while often decreasing the actual
per turn.
distance between it and the opponent's groups. Playing a Movement card
in the reverse mode ("_) simulates the group moving in a direction away
4.24 Attempt to infiitrafe an enemy position or enter Close Combat (20j.
from the opposing player, thus decreasing its range chit while usually
4.25 Alter the composition of the group by performing one of the follow-
increasing the actual distance between it and opposing groups. Placing the
card sideways signifies that the group is moving laterally to the opposing
(18.2/, change crew assignments f11.13/ place smoke f13.2/, attempt to
player without actually changing its range chit. Note that moving laterally
entrench (36.1J, attempt individual transfer f17.8/, remove wire f13.33j or
in this manner does not change the position of any group relative to another
remove mines f24.5/.
or their Relative Ranges except possibly in the case of Lateraf Group
4.3 D/SCARD CAPABILITY: Following the performance of all actions.
Transfer (see 5.61 & 17.7).
the player must discard all used cards as well as any placed cards of an
5.4i Once a Terrain card is played and accepted on a group, it removes all
eliminated group. In addition, depending on his nationality and whether or
cards beneath it from further consideration until redrawn and played again
not he performed any action during that turn, he may discard one or more
later in the garme fi6.2J. Even if a group uses a Movement card to retreat.
unused cards from his hand as well.
the terrain he retreats to will be determined by the next Terrain card played
on top of that Movement card. All cards beneath an accepted, played
4.31 A German player may always discard one (but never more than one)
Terrain card are removed and placed in the Discard pile.
unused card from his hand, regardless of the number of actions he per.
formed during his turn.
S.5 All groups start at Relative Range O from all opposing groups. This is
4.32 An American player may discard up to two unused cards from his
signified by placing a range O chit on the group before the start of play.
hand, but only if he performed no other action during his player turn.
Each time a group plays a Movement card in the Advance mode, it is
increasing its range chit by one (a O range chit is flipped over to become a 1
4.33 A Russian player may discard any number of unused cards from his
range chit, a 1 range chit is exchanged for a 2 range chit, etc). Should a
hand. but only if he performed no other action during his player turn
group play a Movement card in the Retreat mode, the range chit is similarly
(EXC: 36.5).
decreased by one.
4.4 All cards used to perform an action other than movement are revealed
5.51 RETROGRADE: A group may not retreat if, in so doing, it will
and placed in the Discard tray face down. Movement and Terrain cards re-
decrease the Relative Range between it and the closest enemy group
main face up on the table in front of their respective groups. Cards which
to < o. However, even if an enemy group is close enough to allow a
are discarded from a player's hand without being played need not be re-
Retreat, a group already at range chit o (or less) may play a Movement card
vealed before being placed face down in the Discard tray. Card(s) discarded
in the Retreat mode oniy if that Movement card is aiso a red RNC. By doing
on an opposing group(s) are revealed and remain on top of the opposing
so, its Range chit is replaced by a fed Range -l chit. Thereafter, any further
group or placed in the Discard tray as required.
retreat (again accomplished by a red RNc Movement card) would
4.5 HAND REFILL: The player may now draw at his option as many
accomplish a change of the ted Range chit to -2, then -3, etc. All red Range
cards from the Draw pile as is necessary to bring the total number of cards
chits are read as negative numbers. Therefore, if two opposing groups have
in his hand up to his full allotment fExC: 15.2j. It is now the opposing
fespective range chits of 3 and -2, they are at Relative Range 1 (3 + -2 = 1).
player's turn.
not 5. A Relative Range less than O is treated as O for firepower and To Hit
4.6 Repeat steps 4.2-4.5 until a player achieves his Victory Conditions or
purposes.
the scenario time limit expires. Note that a player does not have to take an
[Ex: A group at range chit o can be fired on by a group at range chit -I with all the firepower it can
action or discard in his turn uniess his opponent has tikewise passed in the
muster at Relative Range o.1
immediately preceding player turn.
5.6 REL.A TIVE RANGE: The actual distance between any two opposing
groups is determined by adding their respective range chits together. If the
sum of their range chits is > , that sum is subtracted from 1o to achieve
the true Relative Range between the groups. The range 5 chit can be exceeded
when desired by placing additional Range chits alongside the Range 5 chit.
following chart is provided.

--- PAGE 5 [OCR] ---
RELATIYE RANGE CHART
6.42 Modify the resulting Fire Strength by adding any modifiers due to the
(5 + 1)
Group X at
terrain occupied by the defender, including any applicable Smoke and/or
Range Chit:
Wire cards.
0 -.0. ...0..
Group Y at: -1
0..
.0.
.心.
34.5
6.43 Modify the resuiting Fire Strength by adding any modifiers caused by
the movement status of the defending group.
6.44 At this point, the defender may opt to play any Concealed card in his
hand to further modify the Fire Strength of the attack. If he does so, the
negative modifiers of the Concealed card are added to the Fire Strength to
derive the final Fire Strength of the attack.
5+16
6.5 FIRE COMBA TRESOLUTION: After seeing the final modified Fire
5.6l LATERAL D/STANCE: The Relative Range is further decreased by
Strength of any attack, it is the attacker's option whether or not he wishes
one (to a minimum of O) if the groups in question are neither directly
to resolve that attack or just discard his played Fire card(s) (which still con-
opposite (same lettered groups) or adjacent (B is adjacent to A and C; A is
stitutes an Action taken). To resolve an attack repeat the following pro-
not adjacent to C, D, or E).
cedure for each man in the target group in sequence. Draw the top card
from the Draw pile and add the final Fire Strength of the attack to the
sent could readjust the range chits of every group at the end of each deck
RNC. If the RNC is black. add it to the modified attack strength to obtain
during the resulting shuffle. Readjust by reducing positive range chits and
the Final Combat Resolution Number. If the RNC is red, subfract it from
increasing negative range chits by an egual amount so as to maintain the
the modified attack strength to obtain the Final Combat Resolution
same Relative Range between groups.
Number. Compare this Final Combat Resolution Nunber with the defense
values of the Personality card under attack. The Final Combat Resolution
JEX: Black Group A is at range chit 6. Black Group B is at range chit 3. and Black Group C is at
Number is only compared to the defense value(s) currently exposed on the
range chit 0. Red Group A is at range chit -2. and Red Croup B is at range chit -3. The range chits
should be adjusted by two to: (Black) A:4, B:1, C:-2; (Red) Ato, B:-1.]
card, i.e. face up.
5.7 BLOCKING POS/TIONS: A group may not move forward if, in so
6.51 KIA: If the Personality card has an exposed KIA value < the Final
doing, the Relative Range between it and its like-named (directly opposite)
Combat Resolution Number, the Personality card is eliminated and removed
opposing group would exceed 5 (EXC: AFV, 29.5). In order to move fur-
from play (see a/so 18.1).
ther forward, the opposite group whose Range chit blocks a further
6.52 PINNED: If the Personality card has an exposed Morale
advance would have to retreat or be eliminated.
value < the Final Combat Resolution Number, the Personality card is
(A)[1]
(A)
[-1]
pinned unless eliminated by 6.51. A pinned Personality card is turned over
(B) [5] [1]
to its non-colored side so that only its back side Panic, KiA, and Close
(C)[2]
(C)
[3]
Combat Values are exposed to view.
[EXx: Black Group A and Red Group A are at Relative Range O, and Red Group B has been
6.53 PANiC: If the Personality card has an exposed Panic value < the
eliminated, Black Group B had reached range chit S, but was still not ai Relative Range  with Red
Final Combat Resolution Number, the Personality card is removed from
Croup A so it moved to range chit 6 by placing a range chit 1 alongside its range chit S. They are now
play due to Panic, but is considered KIA for Victory Point fi6.4j, Weapon
at Relative Range 5 (6 + -l - Sy. Note that Black Group B has moved past Red Group C (i.c. Red
Group C is betwcen Black Groups B and Cj. Neithet Group C may move forward until the other
Acquisition (i8.I, and Campaign Game (41.4) purposes only if the
retreats or is eliminated. The Relative Range between Black Group A and Red Group C is actually 3.
Random Position Number (ignoring the color) under column "*Or** of the
not 4, due to the two groups not being opposite or directly adjacent. The Relative Range between
RNC which caused him to panic is ≤ his Panic value as defined on the
Black Group B and Red Group C is 1 (6 + 3 = 9, l0 -9 = 1).1
Pinned side of his card.
6.531 ROUT: If the Random Position Number in the Or column of the
6. FIRE ATTACKS-
RNC which caused a man to Panic is > the man's Panic defense, the man
Fire Strength.
6.1 A player must have at least one Fire card in his
is not killed but is removed from play due to Rout with applicable con-
hand to perform a fire attack. In addition, the group
FIRE 2
seguences to weapons and Victory Points.
performing the attack must have a combined total of at
6.54 If all the exposed defense values of the Personality under attack
Factors Required
least the minimum number of firepower factors re
are > the Final Combat Resolution Number there is no effect.
quired to use that card. Each Fire card has a circled
number in the upper left-hand corner of the illustration
6.6 A defending group can be attacked more than once per turn. It is pos-
which is the minimum nmumber of firepower factors
sible for a Personality Card to be pinned by fire from one attacking group.
needed to use that Fire card. Separate groups may not
and then panic due to fire from another attacking group. The only restric-
Firepower
combine their firepower factors in order to qualify to
tion is that each group may attack only once per turn, and each group
use a Fire card. A group may fire at any opposing
which attacks must do so with its own Fire card(s) which it has sufficient
firepower to use.
Ist Draw .
group provided it has sufficient firepower at its current
BRUSH
264
1131336193
2nd Draw
Relative Range to that group to use its Fire card.
6.2 FIREPOWER: The number of firepower factors a group has available
CCT NOS
is determined by adding the firepower factors of each unpinned man with
MOVEMENT
an operating weapon in the firing group. Note that each man has a
firepower factor for each of six different Relative Ranges. Only the
Hrepeer
STREAM
firepower rating for the current Relative Range between the firing and
target groups is used.
1 1
6.3 More than one Fire card may be used by a single group in one fire
MOALE 5
MMALE S
ft h
PT E4
FUT  ASC 23
attack action as long as the firing group has at least the sum of all required
firepower factors for all Fire cards used. However, the Fire Strength of all
Fire cards used by that group during that turn would have to be added
together to form a combined attack.
FIRE 3
FIRE 1
EX: To use both of these Fire cards in
the samt fire atlack, eight fircpower
20
141431
factors woutd be required in the firing
group. The unmodified Fire Strength
3rd Draw
of the attack would then be 4.j
[EX: The U.S. group depicted above is being attacked with a final modified Fire Strength of S. The
Action card facsimiles pict ured are the RNc's drawn to resolve combat against lhe three defenders.
Sgt Allen is not affected (S + -1 = 4 ≤ S). Pri Myers is eliminated (5 + 4 - 9 2 8). Pvt Degi
panics and is removed (5 + 0 - 5 2 3). However. Pvi Degi is not KiA because the Random
6.4 FIRE STRENGTH: Once it has been determined that the Fire card(s)
Position Number under column ""or** of the third RNC is > 3 which means he routed safely out
can be used, determine the final Fire Strength of the attack. If the attacking
of the firefight.1
group is currently moving fhas played a Movement card with no Terrain
card yet placed over it/, the Fire Strength of its Fire card(s) is halved /12. J).
7. TERRAIN & MOVEMENT FIRE ATTACK MODIFIERS-
6.4l Modify the Fire Strength by adding any modifiers due to the
7.1 Every Terrain and Movement card contains a Fire Strength modifier
attacker's position fsee Wire 3.32. Stream 8.52, Marsh 8.41. Smoke
beneath the name of the card. If the ** + ** or "*_*" sign of the modifier is
I3.22, and Elevated Fire 8.31 for exampfes of Fire Strength modificafions
circled, it pertains to attacks made from that terrain. if not circled, the
due to rhe attacker's position/.
modifier pertains to attacks made against groups defending in that terrain.

--- PAGE 6 [OCR] ---
7.2 The Fire Strength modifier of the lasr Terrain or Movement card placed
8.2 GULL Y: A group occupying Gully terrain can-
not attack or be attacked except by Sniper, mortar
GULLY
NA/-2
group. If the last Terrain or Movement card played on a defending group is
fire, a group on a Hill, Close Combat (hereafter re-
a Movenent card, then the last played Terrain or Movement card placed
ferred to as CC), or at Relative Range 5.
prior to it in that group is also used (as well as any modifiers for
8.2l A defending group in a Gully may deduct two
Smoke/Wire cards above it).
from the Fire Strength of any group which is attack-
ing it.
B)
C)
8.22 A group in a Gully is still considered in that
Brush Movement
Movement Movement
Movement Woods Movement
Gully even after placing a Movement card on top of
-2
+1
-1
+1
the Gully card. Only by placing yet another Move-
(+1)+(+1) = +2
(-1) + (+ 1) = 0
(-2) + (+1) = -1
1 2  4
46678
2123
ment card or a Terrain card on top of the first Move-
ment card does the group leave the Gully and become
D)
E)
eligible to receive and make Fire attacks other than those listed in 8.2. Note
Smoke
Hill
Movement
Brush Movement Smoke Movement
that when leaving a Gully by placing two Movement cards, only the + 1
+1
-1
+1
Fire Strength modifier of the second Movement card would apply to any
(-1) + (-1) + (+1) = -1
(+) +(-1) +(+1) = +1
attacks vs that group unless the attack was one of those listed in 8.2.
However, each Movement card played in an Advance or Retreat mode does
[Examples of Terrain and Movement modifier combinations: In example C, the first Movement
affect the group's range chit, and lateral movement in a Gully can result in
card is not considered because it is cancelled by the placemnent of a Terrain card above it (in fact, it
should be immediately returned to the Discard pile before the other Movement card is even played.
Flanking Fire and/or Group Transfer possibilities.
In example E, the Brush card is not considered because playing the second Movement card cancels
any effect it might have-effectively leaving the group in Open Ground.]
[EX: In the examples below assume fire is originating from a source other than those listed in s.2. ]
Movement Gully
Movement Gully Movement
7.3 OPPPONENT'S TERRAIN PLACEMENT: Any Terrain card other
NA/-2
+1 NA/-2
+1 
than Open Ground can be placed on an opposing group in lieu of a discard
No Fire is Allowed
No Fire is Allowed
fnote nationatity restrictions on discards 4.3j. In order to place a Terrain
Movement Gully Movement Brush
Gully Movement Movement
+1
NA/-2
+1
NA/-2
+1
+1
a Terrain card (i.e. it must have a Movement card in play which is not
Fire Allowed: -l for terrain
Fire Allowed: + 1 for movement
covered by a Terrain card and does not require placement of a second
8.23 An AFV entering a Gully must check for Bog (28.53).
Movement card before it can leave its present terrain). The player who has
just had the Terrain card played against him must then decide to either
8.3 HiLL: A group occupying a Hill may fire on a
HILL
accept or reject the Terrain card placement (EXC: Stream or Minefield
group in a Gully at a Relative Range other than 5 with
01*
-1+
cards can never be rejectedj before starting his own turn.
any weapon.
7.31 If he accepts the Terrain card placement on his group by his oppo-
8.31 A group occupying a Hill may use Elevated Fire
nent, play continues as normal and he may take an action with that group in
(6.4lJ to add one to the Fire Strength of any attack
his coming turn.
they make against any target group not occupying
another Hill or a Pillbox (including boxed fire vs an
7.32 REJECTING TERRAIN: However, if he rejects the Terrain card
AFV as well as the effect of a hit against non-armored
placement on his group by his opponent, he must immediately change the
targets; 25.4).
Advance/Retreat mode of the Movement card it was played on to a
Sideways move. This changes back the range chit of the group, but does not
26 3
8.32 A group occupying a Hill is entitled to a -1
15115
qualify it for any Flanking Fire bonus or Lateral Group Transfer that
modifier to the Fire Strength of any attack made
might otherwise apply. If the Terrain card played on his group by his oppo
against it which originates from any terrain other than another Hill.
nent was afready played on a Sideways mode Movement card, the Move-
8.33 A defending AFV/IG on a Hill is considered Hull Down (28.9j to the
ment card must be placed in the Discard pile (thereby forfeiting any Flank-
firing group unless the firing group is also on a Hill.
ing Fire bonus or group identity change it may have earned). Whenever a
Terrain card placement is rejected in either manner, the Terrain card is
8.4 MARSH: Any defending group occupying
placed in the Discard pile before the player takes his turn.
MARSH
Marsh terrain may deduct one from the Fire Strength
+1
of the group attacking it.
7.33 A player must reject the Terrain card played on his group by his
opponent if the group it is placed on contains a Personality card which is
8.4l A group attacking from Marsh must deduct one
not allowed in that terrain type.
from its overall Fire Strength. A medium machine
gun or mortar may not fire from Marsh. A light
7.34 Whenever a Terrain card is played (and accepted) on a group, all
machine gun, bazooka, or panzerschreck must be fully
Action cards beneath that Terrain card are placed in the Discard pile.
crewed and non-moving and even then may use only
7.4 Note that a group on a single Movement card on top of a Terrain card
its bracketed firepower or To Hit freguency when fir-
is still affected by that Terrain card and therefore is restricted by its
ing from a Marsh, A panzerfaust firing from a Marsh
requirements as well as protected by its benefits.
must deduct one from its To Hit frequency (25.33J.
21
127
8.42 A new Terrain card cannot be placed on top of a
Marsh card until two Movement cards (one per turn) have already been
placed on top of it. The first Movement card placed on top of a Marsh card
must be played in the sideways mode and does not qualify for any Flanking
Fire bonus (although a Flank Movement card played sideways as the
second Movement on top of a Marsh card does). The direction of move-
ment (advance, retreat, lateral), and consequently the range, is determined
8. TERRAIN EFFECTS.-
solely by the manner in which the second Movement card is placed. Similarly,
8.1 OPEN GROUND: The back of every Action
a man in Marsh terrain may not infiltrate (20.24) unless two Movement
card depicts Open Ground. All groups starting a
cards currently cover that Marsh card.
scenario without benefit of a placed Terrain card are
8.43 Neither an AFy nor an Infantry Gun may ever enter Marsh terrain.
considered in Open Ground until a Terrain card is
played on them. A player wishing to move into Open
8.44 A man in Marsh may not attempt to repair a malfunctioned weapon.
Ground may do so by playing any card face down on
A. Marsh Movement )
top of an already placed Movement card. (ExC: An
Open Ground card cannot be placed on top of the
UP FRONT
[EX: A group in the terrain situation shown above in A is not yet eligible to receive a Terrain card
firsr Movement card played on top of any group re-
(8, 42j. If fired upon, the group would not modify the Fire Strength of the attack because the Terrain
quiring the play of fwo Movement cards to leave its
and Movement modifiers nullify each other (l-1l + I + 1] = Oy. The range chit of the group does not
present terrain: i.e. Marsh, Minefield, or 34.3J.
change yet.]
B. Marsh Movement  Movement >
8.11 A group occupying Open Ground receives no
+1
+1
modifications to the strength of attacks made by it or against it due to being
[Ex: A group in the terrain situation shown above in B can now receive a Terain card in future
in that terrain.
player turns. If fired upon, the group would modify the strength of the attack by + 2 (l + 1] + [ + 1]
= + 2y. The range chit of the group does not change because it moved sideways--neither towards
8.12 A man attempting to infiltrate from Open Ground terrain suffers a
nor away from the enemy. Had the second Movement card been placed in an Advance or Retreat
two column shift to the right when checking for Infiltration status (20.37/.
mode, the Range chit would have changed accordingly.J

--- PAGE 7 [OCR] ---
8.5 STREAM: Unlike most other Terrain cards, a
8.9 WALLS: Any defending group on a Walls card
Stream is usually placed on an opposing group. The
may subtract two from the Fire Strength of the
STREAM
WALL
-2*/-1
group on which it is discarded must accept the
opposing group directly opposite it with the same
Stream; it cannot move around the Stream or forfeit
group ID which is attacking it. Exc: A defending
its Movement card as can be done with most other
group on a Wall card may subtract only one from the
Terrain card rejections (7.32).
Fire Strength of a mortar or artillery attack. A defend-
ing group on a Wall card attacked by any group other
8.51 A Stream does not modify an opponent's Fire
than the directly opposing group may subtract one
Strength attack into that Stream.
from the Fire Strength of the group attacking it.
8.52 A medium machine gun, mortar, or Infantry
Neither defensive modification is applicable if the
Gun may not fire from a Stream, although an AFy's
defending group is encircled (17.6).
2b 3d
weapons may fire from a Stream with no detriment at
11234
16349
57729
8.91 A defending AFV on a Walls card is considered
all. Other crewed weapons may fire from a Stream
Hull Down to the firing group when determining if the AFv is hit, unless
only if they are fully crewed and non-moving, and even then must use their
the firing group is entitled to Flanking Fire.
bracketed Firepower or To Hit frequency. The Fire Strength of any other
group attacking from a Stream using non-ordnance weapons is reduced by
8.92 An AFV attempting to Overrun a group in Walls terrain is subject to
one. A panzerfaust fired from a Stream must reduce its To Hit frequency
adverse effects (29.4).
by one.
8.53 FORDING:A Stream can be left only by fording. Fording is the sole
action of a group for that player turn and consists of playing a Movement
[EX: Assume all groups are at range chit o in Walls Terrain. If Black Group A is attacked by Red
card sideways. Fording is automatically successful only if it is
Group A, it may deduct two from the Fire Strength of Red Group A. However, if Black Group A is
accomplished by playing a Ford Movement card. If fording is attempted
attacked by Red Group B or C, it may deduct only one from the Fire Strength of the firing group.
with any other Movement card, it is successful only by drawing a black
Now assume that Red Group C has managed to reach range chit 6, thus putting it behind Black
groups A and B at range chit O and plays a Sideways move creating an Encirclement of Black Group
RNC as it is played. If successful, the Ford Movement card is left in play in
B (see Iz.6y. All defensive advantages of the Walls of Black Group B are now lost as long as the
a Sideways mode on top of.the Stream card. The group is considered mov-
encirclement continues.
ing in the Stream and is eligible to play either another Movement card or a
Terrain card in a subsequent turn. If the attempt is unsuccessful, the Move-
ment card must be placed in the Discard tray instead, although it still
9. CONCEALMENT-
counts as an action taken by that group for that turn. An Infantry Gun
9.1 After seeing the modified strength of any attack
CONCEALED.
attempting to leave a Stream must play two sideways Movement cards (one
(6.44) against him, the defending player has the final
per turn), but only the second Movement card must chance a RNC draw (or
option of lessening the attacker's Fire Strength by
be a Ford Movement card), and is lost if it fails.
playing any one Concealed card he currently has in
his hand before any part of that attack is resolved.
8.53i A potential Flanking bonus could accrue if a Flank Movement card
The card played lessens the Fire Strength of the
fords successfully.
opposing group by one, two, or three corresponding
8.532 Fording can never be combined with a Lateral Group Transfer using
to the negative number printed on the card. Con-
the same Movement card.
cealed cards are used to reduce the To Hit frequency
of ordnance attacks (25.34)--not the effect of any
8.54 A man in a Stream may not attempt to repair a malfunctioned
hits achieved.
weapon.
1222
26682
9.2 After resolving all combat for the attack against
BUILDINGS
8.6 BUILDINGS: Any defending group on a
that group, the played Concealed card is discarded with the just spent
Buildings card may subtract 3 (or 2 if so indicated on
RNC's and Fire cards. If he has an additional Concealed card remaining in
that Buildings card) from the Fire Strength of the
his hand, the defender still has the option of using it that turn should his op-
group attacking it.
ponent conduct another attack against the same or a different defending
8.61 A group in Buildings terrain may not fire a
group.
Mortar (26.2).
9.3 The defender may not replace any Concealed card played during his
8.62 An AFV attempting to Overrun a group in
opponent's turn until the end of his own turn (4.5), and therefore must start
Buildings terrain is subject to adverse effects (29.4).
his turn with a depleted hand.
Ist Draw
RALLY 3
12b34c506.7w890r
783
53
BRUSH
CCV-4/4
SGT SLLEN
123 PAT CONTES
IS PFC MOON
8.7 WOODS: Anydefending group on a Woods card
WOODS
may subtract two from the Fire Strength of the group
FIRE 6
attacking it. ExC: Woods do not detract from the
p16
Fire Strength of a Mortar or artillery attack.
10 151
42161
8.71 An AFV must check for Bog when entering
Bedubet Hand Capac?
PT. 16
ADUT- Or RNC >7
Woods.
2nd Draw
8.72 An AFy attempting to overrun a target in
Woods terrain is subject to adverse effects (29.4).
8.73 AFV EXIT: An AFV must exit Woods terrain
Hpifin migh iegan gh tal
by playing a Movement card in the Sideways mode;
116226
this requirement does not prevent a Flanking Fire ad-
414519
vantage from resulting from the same move.
MEIC PJE
8.74 A man attempting to infiltrate from Woods terrain shifts one column
to the left on the RPC when checking Infiltration status (20.34).
[Ex: A group has attacked with a Fire Strength of 7 against the American group illustrated above in
Woods terrain. Rather than concede a S Fire Strength attack (7 - 2 IWoodsl  Sy, the American
player used his Concealed -2 card to reduce the Fire Strength of the attack to 3. In resolving the at
tack, only Private Coates was pinned (3 + o [RNC] 2 3 [Motale Valuel). However, had the
BRUSH
8.8 BRUSH: Brush terrain is considered hedges in an
American player not played his Concealed card the results would have been far different. Nixon
urban scenario. Any defending group on a Brush card
would also have been pinned (5 + -1 [RNC] 2 4 [Morale Valuel), and the previously pinned Sgt
may subtract one from the Fire Strength of the group
Allen would have been removed due to panic (S + 2 [RNC] ≥ 7 [Panic Valuel).]
attacking it.
9.4 One Concealed card can be played prior to the resolution of each in-
8.8l An AFV attempting to Overrun a group occu-
filtration attempt to aid one man in that infiltration attempt (20.3J. One
Concealed card can also be played by each player to aid one man per CC
pying Brush terrain is subject to adverse effects
before the initial CC resolution card draw of that CC.
(29.4).
9.5 A Concealed card cannot be played on a defending Infantry Gun
8.82 A man in Brush terrain attempting to infiltrate
which has moved or fired during the scenario (34.5), a defending AFV
receives a .two column shift to the left on the RPC
2b345067890r
433139
(28.61), a man undergoing Minefield or Sniper attack, or a Pillbox.
when checking Infiltration status (20.33/.

--- PAGE 8 [OCR] ---
1O. PINNED MEN & RALLY-
that one man by one. Note that reducing a fed RNc ttouire thar vou
actually increase the number by one to decreasc its vaht, i.e. ct et a red 3
10.1 PINNED MEN: When the sum of the final Fire Strength and the
(-3) to a red 4 (-4).
RNC is 2 the fired-on man's Morale value. but < his KIA value that
Personality card is considered pinned and his card is flipped over to reveal a
1o.4s FIREPOWER: A Hero card can be used to double te firepo-cr of
PANIC value and an increased KIA value. while pinned, his only game
any one man for one player turm. If the man is already entdked to doubke
function is to serve as a target. He may perform no other voluntary action
firepower, triple it instead. The firepower factor of a machi ca hich
until rallied.
is doubled (or tripled) is his bracketed firepower-evea if t  a fulty
crewed. Mortars, AFy's, and lG's are not eligible. A nn it  Liht
1o.11 Pinned men may not use their firepower to add to their group's total
Anti-Tank Weapon may improve his To Hit frequency by oe tedher fully
firepower.
crewed or not--but only at those ranges which the weapoa co. ld ormally
10.12 A groupcontaining any pinned man may not place a Movement card
fire at.
(even to remove wire), although it may usually play a Terrain card over an
already placed Movement card. However, individual men within a group
containing a pinned man may play Movement cards directly into the
11. CREW SERVED WEAPONS
Discard tray for movement of single Personnel cards in the form of
1l.l If a Personality card lists two sets of firepoeer ha cr To Hir
Individual Transfer (17.8/, infiltration attempts. or CC entry.
numbers, one of which is in brackets, he is considered to be operling 
crew-served weapon which can function either with  ooe or two ma cre.
lo.3 Pinned men have no Morale value and can only be affected by Fire
attacks if the final result is 2 their Panic or KIA values resulting in their
To use the non-bracketed firepower or To Hit numbers,  secoed rpiared
removal from play.
man in the same group must be assigned to the weapoa ts  stisina.
Otherwise. only the bracketed firepower value for To Hit N bers) are
1o.14 The presence of a pinned man in a defending group increases the
used.
chance of successful infiltration of that group by opponents attempting to
1l.ll The man chosen as the ssitant
infiltrate (20.38/.
must be so designated by placine e wo
Costs 1 Actioni
1o.2 RALL Y: Pinned men regain their normal status
cards next to cach other whhio their
RALLY 4
only if the owner plays a Rally card on their group
Crew/Uncrew
group and placing  ""crtw* counter so
f4.23J as his sole action for that group in that player
that it overlaps both cards. A Sl. AsE.
turn. The player may play only one Rally card per
or Commissar may be designated crewmen and stitl maintain their specinl
group per game turn. and that card is immediately
function.
placed in the Discard pile.
1l.12 The player may start the game with an assistani zlrtady designated
10.21 Up to the number of men indicated on the Rally
as crew, or he may designate one during his tufn as the soke ction of that
card may be returned to normal status. The player has
group for that turn (4.25).
the choice of which of his Personality cards will re-
main pinned if his Rally card is insufficient to return
1l.13 Once a man is designated as crew, he renairs crtw until he for fhe
all the pinned men in a group to normal. If his played
weapon, I8. i is eliminated, attempts to infiltrate, or is desitnaied as non-
13255727
Rally card is sufficient to rally all the men in that
crew during his turn as the sole action of that group for that tutn.
group, they must all be rallied: a player cannot choose to use less Rally
11.2 A man assigned as an assistant crewman forfeits his owa furepower as
capacity than he has played so as to intentionally leave a man pinned.
long as he remains in that capacity, although he does keep possession of his
own weapon for possible subsequent use fi8.2 does Aof appy).
10.22 Any surplus capacity of a Rally card is lost; it may not be used to rally
pinned men of a different group, nor saved for later use. See 28.42 for play
11.3 A pinned man cannot be assigned to, nor relieved from, crew duties.
of Rally cards as partial credit for reviving a stunned or pinned AFy.
1l.4 The assistant crewman cannot fire the weapon slone. A crew-served
10.23 RALL Y ALL. There is one exception to the above rules. The ""Rally
weapon cannot be fired as long as the principal crewuan rbo possesses the
All'' card can be used to rally all pinned men of two adjacent groups at the
weapon is pinned.
same range provided either group has a non-pinned SL, AsL. or Com-
missar (not an AFy or IG commander), or all the pinned men of two non-
12. MOVING FIRE-
adjacent groups provided each group has a non-pinned leader. Whenever a
12.1 The Fire Strength of any Fire card played by a currently moving
Rally All card is used to rally men in more than one group it counts as an
group is halved prior to any other modification (fractions rounded down).
action taken by each group. Failing this, the *Rally All** card can be used
Exc. Fire cards used solely in conjunction with ordnance, or a
to rally all the pinned men (including an AFv or IG) of one group
flamethrower in which that flamethrower is providing all the necessary
regardless of the presence or absence of a leader in that group.
firepower, is not halved.
12.1l Halve the firepower of a moving man with a bolt-action rifle: each
1o.3 VOLUNTARY PANIC: A player may choose to femove any of his
fraction is rounded down (1 - 2  1/2 which yields 0).
pinned men (except a Commissar) anytime during his own player turn
12.12 A medium machine gun, mortar. Light Anti-Tank Weapon, or
without counting as an Action taken. Men voluntarily lost in this manner
Infantry Gun may never be fired while moving.
count in determining applicable scenario Victory Conditions and must
undergo the Panic/Rout determination procedure (6.53J by drawing a
12.13 A moving man with a light machine gun must use the bracketed
Rnc.
firepower value even if the weapon is fully crewed. If the weapon is not fully
crewed, it may not be fired while moving. Any designated crewman still
1o.4 HERO: A Hero card can be played anytime
forfeits his own inherent firepower as long as he remains a designated
HERO
(even during the opponent's turn or immediately
Raly I Anylimee it Acloe
upon drawing a Hero card from the Draw pile thus
crewman.
entitling the player to yet another draw) to rally one
+1
pinned man without counting as an Action. If played
Th:
during the opponent's turn, the card cannot be
replaced until the end of the owner's player turn r9.3j.
1o.41 A Hero card cannot be played on an AFy or
Infantry Gun except as a partial credit towards rally-
ing a pinned ot stunned AFV EXC: 28.421J.
F1- 12
Pl:0
10.42 The Hero card cannot be played on an already
pinned man which has just been removed by Panic. It
must be played before the attack on the pinned man is actually resolved.
10.43 A Hero card could be played on a man who was pinned while
attempting to infiltrate or enter CC (20.21J, thus enabling him to try again
in the same turn. The Hero card can be used to both rally a man and to
simultaneously bestow special heroic powers on him for that turn
(10.44-.45.28.81,33.9).
10.44 Vs AFVOVERRUN: Regardless of whether or not it is used to rally
a pinned man, a Hero card played prior to an opponent's Overrun attack
PI: $1
resolution will reduce the RNC for that particular Overrun resolution vs

--- PAGE 9 [OCR] ---
13.3 WIRE: A Wire card can be placed on an oppos-
[EX: The group depicted above is at Relative Range 3 and moving. The German player wants to use
WIRE
his *Fire 4*' card to attack. In this example, he cannot attack because he lacks the necessary eight
ing group only in lieu of a discard (see 4.3). A Wire
firepower factors in his group to use this Fire card (Griess and his designated crewman have4, Hessel
card cannot be played on a group in Marsh or Pillbox
1, Wolff 1, and Bernhoff 1 for a total of 7). If, however, the enemy group should closethe Relative
terrain. Wire can be placed on Stream terrain only
Range to 4, Hessel's Machine Pistol will be worth 3 firepower factors; thus giving the group nine
firepower factors, more than enough to use their **Fire 4*' card even though the Fire Strength of the
after the group has successfully forded that Stream
I"Fire 4" card will be reduced to 2 due to the moving status of the group.
(see 13.5).
Now assume the group depicted'above is retreating to Relative Range 2. The group now has only
[NOTE: Players may find it difficult to picture Wire being placed on a
three firepower factors to use to play a Fire card and all of those come from Griess's fully crewed
LMG. Hessel has no firepower at range 2, and Wolff and Bernhoff likewise have no FP (because
look upon the Wire card as an abstracted form of a Fate card represent-
each of their 1/2 firepower factors for moving fire at Range 2 is rounded off to O before totalling the
ing any development which could discomfort the enemy in his current.
firepower of the group).J
130689
1234561830
position. If perceiving the Wire card as random shelling which damages
the defender's terrain and causes him to shift slightly within his position
thus disturbing his aim enhances your perception of the card, by all means think of it in those terms.J
13.31 Any defending group on a Wire card must add one to the Fire
Strength of the group attacking it. in addition to any applicable
13. ARTIFICIAL TERRAIN CARDS-
terrain/movement modifiers.
13.1 There are two types of Artificial Terrain cards: Smoke and Wire.
13.32 Any attacking group on a Wire card must deduct one from its own
These are not Terrain cards. Playing an Artificial Terrain card does not
Fire Strength. Crew-served weapons can fire only with their bracketed
change the terrain that a group occupies; rather, it modifies the terrain last
values and only if fully crewed and non-moving. Ordnance weapons (25)
occupied. Therefore, unlike a Terrain card, it need not be placed on a
on a Wire card must deduct one from their To Hit frequency.
Movement card; it can be played directly on top of a Terrain card. An
Artificial Terrain card placed on a group by an opposing player cannot be
13.33 REMOVAL. A Wire card is removed and placed in the Discard Pile
rejected (7.32).
as soon as a Movement card is played. However, that Movement card is
also removed and does not serve to ford, flank, change Relative Range or
13.2 SMOKE: A player may play a Smoke card only
group identity, or add to any attacker's Fire Strength against that group.
on one of his groups containing an unpinned SL.
SMOKE
ASL or AFV as his sole action for that group during
13.34 Neither Terrain nor Movement cards can be placed on top of a Wire
that player turn (4.25j. Smoke cannot be placed in
card by either player; the Wire card must first be removed by play of a tem-
Marsh terrain, and cannot be placed during a player
porary Movement card. Note that a group on Wire may not play a Move-
turn in which a Breeze RNC/RPC has been drawn.
ment card to remove the Wire as long as that group contains a pinned man.
13.21 .A defending group. in Smoke receives a -1
13.35 Vs AFV: If a Wire card is discarded on an AFV (whether moving or
modification to the Fire Strength of the group which
not), the AFV must immediately check for Bog (28.53J. Regardless of the
is attacking it in addition to the terrain effects of the
outcome, the Wire card is removed to the Discard pile and therefore does
last Terrain card played.
not affect fire from an AFV.
1263067890
13.22 An attacking group in Smoke receives a -1
13.36 CLOSE COMBAT: A man in Wire may not attempt to infiltrate.
1214
322828
modification to the Fire Strength of any attack it
However, the existance of Wire on a group does not protect it from being
makes.
infiltrated. An infiltrator who subsequently has Wire placed on his group
may still engage in CC.
13.23 Smoke does not prevent a Terrain card from being played on a
previously placed Movement card, it merely adds to the defensive value of
13.4 As it takes two Movement cards to move out of Marsh, neither Wire
the last played Terrain card beneath it in that group.
nor Smoke can be played over Marsh terrain until the group has first played
two Movement cards on the Marsh.
13.24 Smoke cards remain in effect until one of the following events occur,
at which point they are immediately placed in the Discard pile.
13.5 Open Ground may be placed beneath a Wire or Smoke card and
above a Movement card by the moving player so as to eliminate his group's
13.24l A Terrain card is played above any Smoke card(s) on that group,
Moving status, yet leave the Wire and/or Smoke in play.
even if subsequently rejected.
13.6 The effects of Wire and Smoke are cumulative. It would require two
13.242 Two Movement cards are played in any mode and remain on top of
Movement cards (played on different turns) to remove two Wire cards
the Smoke card at the end of that player turn. (A second Movement card
from the same group.
placed only momentarily so as to remove a Wire card would not remove
Smoke, nor would any Movement card played directly into the Discard tray
A)
B)
for movement by individuals within the group.)
Movement
Wire
Stream
Stream
Wire
Not Allowed
+1
13.243 BREEZE: An effective Breeze card instantly removes all Smoke
cards currently in play. A Breeze card is effective only if drawn during any
D)
Wire
Wire
Brush Movement
Wire
RNC/RPC check. A Breeze card is noted by the word ""Breeze*'on the left
Marsh Movement Movement
+1
+1
+1
+1
+1
+1
side of a Rally card. Any attack being resolved when a Breeze card is drawn
Total Modifier = +3
Total Modifier = +2
is affected by that smoke, but all subsequent attacks are not (including any
using the same Fire card(s) in the current attack).
[EX: The Wire placement in Example A is not allowed ri3.3]. In Example B, the group on Wire
should probably play Open Ground beneath the Wire card if it doesn't have a Movement card to
13.25 The effect of Smoke cards is cumulative. Two or more Smoke cards
cancel the Wire card, In Example D, placing Open Ground beneath the Wire would not change the
could be added to 'the defensive value of -the last played Terrain card
total Terrain Effect Modfifier (which would remain at + 2), but it would allow the group to fire
beneath them, or subtracted from the Fire Strength of any group attacking
without being penalized for Moving Fire.1
from.them.-.
[EX: In example C, the Smoke card is removed as soon as the second Movement card is played.]
14. SNIPERS-
B)
14.1 Unless a Scenario Special Rule designates
Brush Smoke Movement
Movement Smoke Movement
SNIPER
Sniper cards as being playable only by a particular
. -l
+1
+1
+1
KIA:O.IN 3-S
side in that scenario, any player with a Sniper card
Total Modifier = -1
Total Modifier = +1
may play it provided he does so as a discard. Thus, an
D)
American or Russian player may take no other action
Smoke Movement Movement
Brush Smoke Smoke Moverment
during a turn in which they make a Sniper attack; a
+1
+1
-1
German player may make no other discards during a
Total Modifier = +2
Total Modifier = -2
turn in which he makes a Sniper attack.
13.26 Smoke has no effect in night scenarios-and should be treated as a
14.2 Playing a Sniper card allows the player to attack
Cower card instead.
one opposing card in a group of his choice regardless
13.27 A man attempting toinfiltrate from and/or into a Smoke card must
12341624367
of the terrain occupied by that group. If the target
make a two column shift to the left on the RPC for each Smoke card when
group is a multi-Personnel card group, the card to be
checking for Infiltration.
attacked in that group is determined by a RPC draw (see I4.oj. A Sniper
13.28 An AFV making an Overrun attack against a group in Smokeis sub-
may attack an AFv (28.431J only if its CE value side is face up.
ject to adverse effects (29.4).
14.3 RESOLUTION: A Sniper attack is resolved by drawing a RNC and
13.29 See25.7-.8 for effect of smoke on ordnanceand placementof smoke
comparing the number to the KIA & PIN values printed on the Sniper card.
There is no significance to the color of the RNC drawn, nor are there any
by an AFV.

--- PAGE 10 [OCR] ---
modifications, A "KlA* result removes the defender's Personality card
If the RPC drawn indicates a position occupied by a pinned man, that man
from the game. A ""Pinned** result flips his card to the Pinned side. If the
is eliminated. This process does not constitute an action taken by the
defender is already pinned, the Personality Panics and must check for Rouf
group.
(6.53iJ. Any other result is a Miss and as no effect. The Sniper card is
15.54 A Commissar can never be voluntarily eliminated (10.3/.
placed in the Discard pile after resolution.
15.6 UNBALANCED POSITION: Should a player be reduced to one
14.3l Vs AFV: A Sniper which scores a Pinned result on an AFV forces
that AFV to Button Up (28.43J (or flip to its Pinned side in the case of an
group, the opposing player at the end of his own turn may draw one addi-
tional card beyond that which he would otherwise be entitled to during each
Open Topped AFV). A sniper which scores a KiA result on an AFy not
turn in which this condition persists.
only forces that AFy to button up or flip to its Pinned side, but also places
a Commander Killed chit on the AFV (28.431).
14.32 Vs IG: A Sniper which scores a Pinned result vs an Infantry Gun
flips that card to its Pinned side: if already pinned the card is removed. A
16. THE ACTION DECK & VICTORY DETERMINATION-
KIA result on an Infantry Gun by a Sniper flips the card to its Pinned side.
16.1 ACTION DECK: A scenario often lists alterations to the Action
and also places a *"Commander Killed*" chit on the Infantry Gun. A Sniper
deck. Players should remove the specified cards during the course of play
cannot attack a Pinned or Buttoned Up AFy.
by setting them aside as they are placed in the Discard pile. Such cards are
14.4 SNIPER CHECK: The defending player, as the first and sole action
still used to resolve RNC and RPC draws when first drawn. If drawn by a
of the group fired on by the Sniper in the immediately following player
player for inclusion in his hand, the card is treated as a Cowering card until
turn, may attempt to locate and remove the Sniper with a Sniper Check
discarded. Such cards must be removed from the Action deck as they are
provided it has an armed (not secondary weapons), unpinned man in that
discarded from the player's hand or drawn to resolve RNC/RPC draws. A
group. (A CE AFV or unpinned Infantry Gun will also suffice). A Sniper
player may not discard an outlawed card from his hand face down in an
Check is attempted by drawing a RNC, and is successful only if that RNC is
attempt to keep it in play. However, such a card could be played face down
both black and > the RNC (ignoring color) drawn by the Sniper when
as an Open Ground card and thereby avoid being removed.
resolving his attack. If the Sniper Check is successful, all Sniper cards
[Ex: Scenario A calls for the removal of five of the eight Buildings cards. The first five Buildings
henceforth held by the opponent are treated as Cower cards. This is the
cards discarded directly from a player's hand or used as a RNC/RPC are removed from the game.
only way a Sniper can be attacked and does not require the use of a Fire
Therefore, a Buildings card could never be placed (or discarded) during Prepare For Play Initial
card, but does count as an Action taken by that group. Elimination of a
Terrain Placement f3.6j. However, the instant the fifth Buildings card is removed from play, the
three remaining Buildings cards become valid Terrain cards. In this instance, players may want to
Sniper is never considered in determining Victory Points or Scenario
hold a Buildings card in their hand in anticipation of its eventual value as a Terrain card.J
Victory Conditions.
16.2 DECK: When the Draw pile is empty, the Discard pile is shuffled and
14.41 In DYO scenarios f43),players have the option to purchase a second
becomes the new Draw pile. This process is referred to as one Deck for
Sniper which merely allows them to continue playing Sniper cards until
Time Limnit purposes. Flip or change the Time chit on the Discard tray
they have lost two Sniper checks.
accordingly.
14.5 If, in the course of a multi-card discard, two or more Sniper and/or
16.21 If a card in the Draw pile is inadvertently exposed to view to either
Minefield attacks are played on the same group resulting in the elimination
player, it should be reshuffled back into the Draw pile (or, at the other
of the only target in that group, the discarding player may alternate his
player's option, the Discard pile). Players are never allowed to actually
selection of a target group for any discards yet to be resolved.
count the number of cards remaining in the Draw pile.
14.6 RPC DRA W: A Random Position Card fhereafter referred to as
16.22 The general rule of card players that **a card laid is a card played**
RPCJ is the drawing of any Action card from the deck to randomly deter-
holds true here also unless the play of that card is illegal. However.
mine which position within a group will receive a particular action. Near
ignorance of the rules of play is not an acceptable excuse for altering the
the bottom of every Action card is a line of ten blue numbers ranging from
course of play once a different player has begun his turn. Therefore, any
**1 ** on the left to *Or** (loRout) on the right, Each blue number represents
inadvertent violation of the rules (such as the incorrect or unapplied ap-
the number of men in a group. If, for example, the target group of a Sniper
plication of a modifier) is accepted as a valid play once another player
attack contains six men, the number beneath the blue "*6* is consulted to
begins his turn.
detertmine the position within the six man group which is the target of the
l6.3 T/ME LIMITS: Most scenarios have a time limit defined in terms of
Sniper attack. RPC's are also drawn to resolve Infiltration attempts, CC
playing to the bottom of the Draw pile a particular number of times.
pairings, Bog, Rout, and other occurrences which are explained elsewhere.
Whenever the Draw pile has been emptied that number of times, the game
ends and victory is determined by the criteria established in the scenario.
However, if the Draw pile is emptied in the process of resolving an attack of
any kind, the Discard pile is reshuffled so that any remaining portion of the
attack in guestion can be resolved fully. The game then ends at that point.
15. COMMAND CONTROL-
It may not continue further even if players could otherwise play from the
cards in their hand without drawing to replenish those hands.
15.1 Each player usually starts the game with one Squdd Leader (indicated
on his Personality card by the designation SL after his namej, and one
16.31 REAL TIME: To simulate the snap decisions required in combat at
Assistant Squad Leader (ASL.
this level and to keep the game from being bogged down by a slow.
calculating opponent, players are urged to play within the constraints of
15.2 Should a player's SL be pinned at the end of his turn, or have just
one minute turns. To facilitate this rule, a chess clock should be set at one
been removed by a KIA or PANIC result during that game turn, that player
minute after each player ends his turn by drawing all necessary cards to fill
may only draw enough cards to restore the number of cards in his hand
his hand. His opponent then has a total of one minute in which to declare
(4.5) to one less than the number he is usually allotted.
all his actions and/or discards he will make in his turn. He may resolve one
1s.3 If the SL is removed, the squad's hand capacity would return to
or more actions before declaring the remainder of his turn if he wishes, but
normal for subsequent turns, but rule 15.2 would then apply to the ASL for
once his minute has expired he may not declare any further actions or
all future turns. The ASL (or Commissar) is now considered to be the SL..
discards. Resolution of declared actions and discards may take place after
There is no penalty for the ASL being pinned or removed while the SL is
tirne has elapsed. This rule should be implemented only by experienced
still in play.
players and with their mutual consent. For those lacking a chess clock.
15.4 Should both the SL and the ASL be removed, the reduced card hand
inexpensive sand timers are available in most Department stores or by mail
becomes a liability for the duration of the scenario.
from Avalon Hill in one, two, and three minute varieties.
15.5 COMMiSSAR: Occasionally the Russian player's forces will include
16.4 VICTOR Y POINTS: Should a scenario end due to time limit and the
a man with a rank of Commissar instead of either a SL or ASL. The
Victory Conditions for that scenario do not include the condition that one
Commissar is the equal of the SL or ASL (whichever role he fills) in all the
player wins by denying the opponent's Victory Conditions, the winner is
respects listed above. In addition, special rules pertain to play with a
decided by the side having the most Victory Points. At the end of the
Commissar.
scenario, unless specified otherwise, each player multiplies the number of
unpinned, non-moving men (or unpinned AFv/infantry Guns, or mobile
15.51 The Commissar must start play in the largest group of his side.
15.52 All men in the same group with an unpinned Commissar have their
the terrain occupied). The result is the number of Victory Points awarded
MORALE and PANIC values increased by one.
for aggressive action. Note that occupation of a negative range chit would
yield negative Victory Points. Add to this total two Victory Points for every
15.53 EXECUTION: Any group containing both an unpinned Commissar
opposing man removed due to KIA or Commander (or Crew) Killed
and a pinned man at the end of the Russian player's turn must draw a RPC
results, six Victory Points for every opposing Infantry Gun, and ten
to determine if the Commissar executes his pinned comrade for cowardice.
10

--- PAGE 11 [OCR] ---
Victory Points for every opposing AFV eliminated. In addition, each
17.3 NATURAL FLANKING FIRE: Flanking Fire occurs naturally
eliminated AFV is worth an additional number of Victory Points equal to
without use of a Flank Movement card whenever a group moves forward to
its basic anti-armor attack strength. One Victory Point is awarded for each
Relative Range 4 from Relative Range 5 thus placing it behind an adjacent
opposing wounded man or Rout removal, Five Victory Points are awarded
enemy group which also has an opposing group directly in front of it (with
for each prisoner (32) taken. A card does not have to possess functioning
the same group ID letter). Note that in this case a group could also be moy-
armament to be worth Victory Points or satisfy most victory conditions.As
ing into the receiving end of a Flanking Fire situation from the very group it
an aid in calculating Victory Points, all removed Personnelcards should be
is flanking, if it too has a group directly in front .of it. This is the only
given to the opponent for accounting purposes. KlA's should be stacked
instance in which two groups may simultaneously flank each other, and in
face up, and Rout removals should be stacked face down.
which one group may simultaneously flank two adjacent groups, and may
occur only at these Relative Ranges.
16.41 Pinned men, and immobilized, bogged, or pinned AFV's are not
[EX: It is Red's turn. If Red Group B moves to range chit 2 it will flank Black Group A, but will also
eligible for Victory Points for either side.
be subject to flanking fire from both A and C, If it were Biack's turn, he could move his Group A
and/or C to range chit 5 to flank Red Group B, and only Black Group A would be subject to Flank-
16.42 VICTORY CONDITION FULFILLMENT: Some scenarios
ing Fire (from B).
require as part of their Victory Conditions that a certain number of unpinned
B [3]
A [4]
C [4]
men must reach a certain range chit or Relative Range position and occupy
A [0]
B [1]
terrain "which will reduce the Fire Strength of an attack against them**
Under most circumstances any terrain other than Open Ground,
17.4 A group entitled to Flanking Fire doubles its firepower (ExC:
Minefield, or Stream would suffice to fill this requirement. However, the
flamethrowersj for all subsequent fire against the flanked defending group
existance of a Wire card on top of a Terrain card reduces the defensive
until one of the following actions occurs.
modification due to terrain which that terrain would normally be entitled
17.41 Flanking Fire is lost whenever another Movement card or a Wire
to and may serve to void it as fulfillment of the Victory Conditions. On the
card (not a Terrain card) is played on top of the flanking group.
other hand, entrenchments can be used to improve Open Ground so as to
17.42 Flanking Fire is lost whenever a Terrain card is played on the flanked
fulfill Victory Conditions.
group--even if subsequently rejected.
16.421 Smoke, which is not permanent, cannot be used to fulfill Victory
17.43 Flanking Fire is lost whenever the defending group plays a Move-
Conditions.
ment card (even to remove Wire or unsuccessfully ford a Stream). Move-
16.422 A unit in the act of movement cannot fulfill Victory Conditions.
ment cards played by individualis within-the flanked group directly into the
16.423 A Gully suffices as **terrain which will reduce the Fire Strength of
Discard pile have no effect on.Flanking Fire.
an attack** even if no enemy group is capable of fire into that Gully.
17.44 Flanking Fire is lost if either group is eliminated, or the group directly
[EX: In Scenario A, a group of four unpinned men is at range chit 4 in Brush terrain, but do not
opposite the flanked group is eliminated or changes its group ID.
fulfill the Victory Conditions because they also are penalized by a Wire card which reduces the
overall terrain modifier of the Brush card to O, They must remove the Wire card to satisfy their
17.5 When Flanking Fire is lost, remove the Flank Fire chit. The Flank
Victory Conditions. Note that had their Terrain card been a Woods, Buildings, or Gully card they
card itself need not be removed if still in place, although it cannot be used
would have fulfilled their Victory Conditions anyway because one Wire card is not enough to reduce
again for Flanking Fire until redrawn from the Draw Pile and 'replayed.
the terrain modifiers of those terrain types to O.]
16.5 BROKEN SOUAD: A scenario always ends whenever a player has
17.6 ENCIRCLEMENT: A gTOuP
ENCIRCLED
which is behind an adjacent enemy group
lost more than half of his Personality cards due to KlA and/or Rout.Rein-
No Transfer
forcements are not considered part of the force until they actually enter
(i.e. has reached Relative Range 5 with
Flanked:
play.
an adjacent group and then advanced
2xFP
past that group to Relative Range 4again
Panic: -1
[EX: if a Russian player has 14 men and an AFV, he loses immediately upon loss of his 8th card, if a
may encircle it in a subsequent turn by
player has seven men and an IG, plus five men which will eventually enter as reinforcements (35/, he
playing a sideways Movement card (even if currently being flanked by that
loses immediately upon loss of his Sth Personnel card prior to the entry of the reinforcements. After
their arrival he loses only after having lost seven Personnel cards.l
group) while still at Relative Range 4, and placing an Encircled chit on the
opponent's group. Note that the group does not change identity, or any
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to begin play of Scenario A. Before proceeding further.
we suggest you play Scenario A which you'll find on Page 36 and become familiar with the rules of
Relative Range by placement of this sideways Movement card--itmerely is
play you've learned thus far.]
entitled to place an Encircled chit on the enemy group. No group can take
part in the Encirclement or flanking of more than one opposing group at a
time. To be eligible for Encirclement, the adjacent enemy group must have
an opposing group directly in front of it. These two encircling groups do
17.FLANKING FIRE & ENCIRCLEMENT-
not have to be capable of fire; they merely have to exist. An AFv is not sub-
17.1 LATERAL FLANKING FIRE: Flanking Fire
ject to Encirclement.
MOVEMENT
can originate at any Relative Range from a group
17.61 The effects of Encirclement are threefold:
whose last placed ""Flank Movement card was
played sideways and remains in play at the end of the
17.611 An encircled group may not make a Lateral Group.Transfer, or
turn in which it was played (including play in a
send or receive an Individual Transfer.
Marsh, Gully, or successful fording of a Stream).
17.612 A/l fire against an encircled group is entitled to the Flanking Fire
When playing a Flank Movement card in this
bonus regardless of the source of that fire. A group already entitled to a
manner, the player must specify an adjacent oppos-
Flanking Fire bonus against the encircled group receives no additional
ing enemy group which it is flanking by placing a
bonus. Furthermore, the Flanking Fire bonus is not lost until the encircle-
Flank Fire chit on the opposing group with the arrow
ment is broken.
12634506
of the chit coming from the direction of the group
1232166666
which is flanking it.
17.613 The Panic values of all pinned Personality cards in an encircled
group are reduced by one as long as they remain encircled.
17.2 A group can flank only an adjacent enemy group whose ID letter
17.62 An encircled group remains encircled until either opposing group
directly precedes or follows its own ID letter in the alphabet. A group can-
which comprises the encirclement is eliminated, or infiltrated by the en-
not laterally flank a group which currently enjoys a Flanking Fire advan-
circled group, or changes its group ID chit (l7.), or is at Relative Range 1
tage over it (ExC: 17.3), but may flank another group if not already flanked
or less from the encircled group, or both encircling groups find themselves
by that group. Flanking Fire is valid only if the group being flanked is also
""in front of** the encircled group.
currently opposed by a directly opposite enemy group with the samegroup
17.63 An encircling group is always at Relative Range 4 or less when it first
ID chit.
[EX: Given the groups illustrated below at left, the following Flanking Fire options are possible. A
group in a subsequent turn to reach Relative Range S and still maintain its
could flank B. B could flank A. Ccould flank B. D.cannot flank in the current group configuration.
encircling status.
If B were to move laterally to become C,then D could flank C as could B. If Cwere to cease to exist.
D could move laterally to become C and could then flank B. A could flank B. B could flank A.J
17.7 LATERALGROUP TRANSFER:A groupcapableof movement
can change its group identity and thereby its position directly opposite an
opposing group by announcing a Lateral Group Transfer and playing a
Movement card in the sideways mode (including a Ford or Flank card
17.21 A Flanking group may choose only one opposing group to Flank
thereby possibly fulfilling double purposes). In doing so, it attempts to
with its current Flank Movement card, and having made that choice, may
assume the identity of an adjacent, previously non-existant group. Such a
not later substitute another opposing group ID chit for that same Flank
group ID transfer can occur only if there is no other friendly group in that
Movement card. This remains true even-if the original group chosen has
position at the start of the turn. The Group identity change does not occur
been subsequently eliminated.Flanking an enemygroup in no way detracts
until a Terrain card is played on the sideways Movement card (and ac-
from a group's ability to fire.at other enemy groups.
cepted). However, adjacent groups which are both capable of movement
11

--- PAGE 12 [OCR] ---
may each play a sideways Movement card simultaneously so as to exchange
18.2 A weapon counter may be acquired by any unpinned
Machine Pistol
positions on the table and group ID's. However, they cannot move into
infantryman in the same group, provided he does so as the
each other's previous Terrain card--even if at the same range chit. Note
sole action of that group for that turn (4.25j. To suc-
R3:1FP
that a group on a Stream is not capable of unhindered movement, and
cessfully acquire the weapon he must draw a black RNC.
R4: 3FP
X6
therefore may be incapable of a simultaneous Lateral Group Transfer.
The weapon chit is then placed on his card and replaces all
R5:5FP
Should either group be subsequently incapable of movement (due to re-
weapon characteristics printed on his card. However, if he
jected terrain placement or a failed ford attempt), neither group receives its
draws a red RNC, there is no result even though that group is considered to
new ID chit and change of position unless its Lateral Group Transfer did
have expended an Action in the attempt.
not depend on the success of the other group vacating the area it is moving
18.21 WEAPON EXCHANGE: A man may not keep possession of, nor
to. A group in Marsh may change identity by playing only one Movement
fire, more than one weapon. In acquiring a weapon, he automatically
card, but still requires two Movement cards to exit that Marsh. Group ID
exchanges his previous weapon (EXC: 20.74, SW:21.1) for the weapon chit
transfers are limited to A through D (except when reinforcements enter
just gained by leaving a proper weapon chit in its place. Primary weapons
play as Group E or Z, 35.1).A group which is infiltrating an enemy group
of pinned and unwounded men cannot be voluntarily exchanged.
may not make a Lateral Group Transfer.
A [3]  B[2]
given to another unpinned man in the same group automatically as the sole
A [1] B[2] C [4]
action of that group for that turn.
[EX: Red Group C has just gotten behind Black Group B by moving to range chit 4 to qualify for
18.22 ASSISTANT' CREWMEN: A crew-served weapon cannot be
Flanking Fire (Relative Range 4: 2 + 4 = 6: 10 -6 = 4), and mayencircle Black Group Bon a subse-
quent turn by playing a Movement card sideways. Black Group B may avoid that unpleasant
acquired by any man other than the assistant crewman unless the assistant
possibility by retreating to range chit I (Relative Range 5 with Red Group C). Assuming Red Group
is pinned. An assistant crewman's acquisition attempt of the weapon he
C does not advance again in the interim, Black Group B could then act to block Red GroupC from a
future encirclement attempt by playing a Movement card sideways and becoming Black Group C.J
counts as an Action taken by that group. Once the assistant crewman ac-
17.8 INDIVIDUALTRANSFER:An
quires sole possession of the crew-served weapon, he must abandon his
RANSFER
+2
Aange
unpinned man in a group which isneither
own weapon and ceases to be the assistant crewman.
Fire at
encircled, nor on Wire/Minefield, may
Either Group
transfer from one group to an adjacent
Same
18.3 The weapon of a pinned man cannot be acquired as long as he remains
Costs Action
friendly group with the same range chit
to Remove
in the game.
by placing a Movement card in the
18.4 An unacquired weapon counter (not placed on a man's card) is
discard tray for each man he wishes to transfer as the sole action of the
removed from play permanently if the group it belongs to has a Terrain or
sending group for that turn. The transfer cannot be an infiltrator. To
Movement card played on it (even if subsequently rejected and discarded).
transfer, either the receiving or.sending group must contain an unpinned
Play of a Movement card directly into the Discard pile by a single man of
leader. The man being transferred is moved between the sending and
that group does not remove the unacquired weapons of that group from
receivinggroup, and is marked with a Transfer chit. Both groups must have
play.
started their turn at the same range chit and may not move from that range
chit until a turn after the Transfer chit is removed. The transferred man is
subject to a + 2 modifier to the Fire Strength of all attacks against both
groups as long as he bears the Transfer chit. Removal of a Transfer chit(s)
19. MALFUNCTION-
places the Personnel card(s) in the Groupreceiving it,but counts as the sole
19.1 A weapon may possibly jam or run out of ammunition if its group
action allowed by that group in that turn, and cannot occur in the same turn
fires and, in the process of resolving that fire against any target in the
in which the transfer was initiated.
defending group, a red 6 RNC is drawn.
17.81 If the transferring man starts in an unforded Stream, his transfer is
19.11 If the firing group contains only one firing weapon with usable
conditional on his successful fording of that Stream. If the transferred man
firepower factors, and a red 6 RNC is drawn to resolve its attack that
starts in Marsh, he cannot transfer unless his group already has a Move-
weapon automatically malfunctions, and any remaining defenders which
ment card in play (in which case he need play only one).
have not yet had the attack against-them resolved need not do so.
17.82 Individual transfers can be used to reduce a group to less than two
19.12 ORDNANCE: An ordnance weapon (25.5) malfunctions
men or even remove it altogether, but may not be used to increase a group
automatically if, in resolving its To Hit possibility, a red 5 or red 6 RNC
to 11 or more Personnel cards.
(EXC:ATRJis drawn.Ared 5or red6RNCdrawnduring theresolution of
17.83 In addition to the + 2 modifier for his Transfer chit, an individual
an already attained hit does not create a malfunction.
transfer receives the terrain effects modifiers of the group being attacked
19.13 If the firing group contains more than one weapon with usable
(EXC: a transfer is moving and therefore not eligible for Entrenchment
firepower factors, a RPC is immediately drawn to determine which weapon
modifiers).
in the group actually malfunctions. All weapons in an attacking group
17.84 A man who is pinned during transfer loses his Transfer chit and is
(even those with a firepower of O) are considered to be firing when the
returned to his original group.
group attacks (ExC: flamethrowers, secondary weapons,.ordnance, non-
firing infiltrators, and the weapons of designated assistant crewmenj. If the
17.9GROUPCREATION:Onceplaybegins,a newgroupcanbecreated
RPC indicates a non-firing weapon has malfunctioned, there is noeffect. If
only by the arrival of reinforcements (35) or splitting an existing group by
the RPC indicates a position occupied by a pinned man, there is no effect to
individual transfer.
the attack, but the pinned man's weapon does malfunction. If the RPC in-
17.91 Individual transfer can be used to create a new group only if one of
dicates a position occupied by a designated assistant crewman of a firing
the positions next to the creating group (A through D) is not already
MG or a man whose weapon has no firepower at its current range, the
occupied by a friendly group. To create a new group in that position, the
malfunction is considered only momentary, and fire against any remaining
creating group must qualify for Individual Transfer and simultaneously
defenders in the defending group yet to be attacked is resolved with one less
attempt to transfer at least two men to the new group.
Fire Strength, but no weapon malfunctions. If the RPC indicates a position
occupied by a firing weapon, that weapon malfunctions and combat vs any
17.92 The Group Creation is completed when the new group plays a Ter-
remaining defenders not yet fired upon is resolved with one less Fire
rain card. If any transferring man is pinned prior to the play of a Terrain
Strength for every two Firepower factors (or fraction thereof) previously
card on its group-the transfer fails and the entire group is returned to the
contributed by the malfunctioned weapon. This reduction to the Fire
creating group. Otherwise, all rules for Individual Transfer apply.
Strength is made after any halving effects for Moving or Night Fire, and is
made even if the firing group did not require that weapon's firepower in
order to play the Fire card(s) used in the attack.
19.14 Although pinned men and those with already malfunctioned
weapons are not considered to be firing, their weapons are always subject
18. WEAPON ACOUISITION-
to malfunction (including flamethrower, ordnance, and the principal
18.1 WEAPON LOSS: The weapon of a man eliminated by a KIA result
weapon of a designated crewman). A player cannot specify men as not fir-
(including non-survivable Panic) need not necessarily leave the game with
ing solely to avoid the possibility of their weapons malfunctioning.
him. If the man was occupying or moving in Marsh or Stream terrain, his
weapon is assumed to have been lost and is removed with the man's card.
19.15 CREWED WEAPONS: Any weapon using a bracketed firepower
Otherwise, his weapon remains in play in the form of a weapon chit next to
or To Hit Frequencyrating is also subject to malfunction on a red RNCone
the Group's ID chit. Exc: An infiltrator- who is eliminated leaves his
less than that which would otherwise result in a malfunction.
weapon in the infiltrated group. A man removed from play due to Rout
{EX: A MG being fired without a designated crewman would malfunction automatically when any
red S RNCis drawn to resolve an attack in which it takes part. Should two such weapons participate
(6.531) takes his weapon out of the game with him unless he is the principal
in the same attack, resolve the matter of which malfunctions with a RNC draw. Should a red 6 be
operator of a crew-served weapon.
drawn, the question of which weapon may malfunction is resolved normally.1
12

--- PAGE 13 [OCR] ---
19.2 A malfunctioned weapon is symbolized by placing a
20.2 INFILTRATION: Unpinned men
"malfunction* chit on the Personality card (or if he
INFILTRATOR
MALFUNCTION
which start their player turn at Relative
Inf:
2xFP
already has a weapon chit, flipping it over to its Malfunc-
Range 5 to an enemy group(s) may at-
Repair: 1-6
tion side). An already malfunctioning weapon which
+ 2 ARight
tempt to individually infiltrate one or
Remove: 4-6
malfunctions again is removed from play. A malfunctioned
Keep: +3
more of those groups with or without
MOR/PAN: -1
weapon has no firepower and therefore cannot be used
playing a Movement card, but how many
in qualifying its group to use a specific Fire Strength card.
men and how they will attempt to infiltrate must be designated before the
first attempt is resolved. Any number of unpinned men in the group may
19.3 REPAIR: An unpinned man may attempt to repair his malfunctioned
attempt to infiltrate, but only as the sole action of that group for that turn.
weapon provided he does so as the sole action of that group for that player
turn (4.25) and he is not currently occupying a Stream or Marsh, or in the
20.21 MORALE CHECK: In order to succeed in his attempt to infiltrate
act of movement. A RNC is drawn to resolve a repair attempt. The
without playing a Movement card, each man must pass a Morale Check by
malfunction chit contains a listing of the RNC's that will result in repair or
drawing a RNC  his current MORALE value (ignoring color). If he
elimination of the weapon, If the RNC drawn does not match any of the
draws a RNC which is 2 his current Morale value he is pinned without in-
numbers listed under either the Repair or Elimination categories, there is
filtrating, and the group is still considered to have expended its one allowed
no effect and the weapon remains in the malfunction state subject to
action for that turn, although other pre-designated men in that group may
another repair attempt in a subsequent turn. The weapon may continue to
still attempt to individually infiltrate during that turn.
be carried until removed by another malfunction result or a Renoval result
20.22 An unpinned man may attempt to infiltrate without having to pass a
occurs during a Repair attempt. An AFV may attempt repairs regardless of
Morale Check by playing a Movement card directly into the Discard pile
terrain or movement status.
(does not count as a Discard). The Movement card does not alter the range
19.4 UNARMED: An unarmed man, or
of the group, transform moving status onto that individual, nor have any
UNARMED
MORALE/PANIC
a man with a malfunctioned weapon, has
other effect on the remainder of the group, and can be played even though
his Morale and Panic values reduced by
other members of the same group may be pinned. The player may play as
except in cc
one as long as the condition persists fex-
many Movement cards as he has unpinned men with which to attempt
cept in CC 20.6j. He may assist in crew-
infiltration.
ing a weapon, but his defense values re-
20.23 A crewman may abandon his crew status (11.13) and attempt to
main reduced until he actually acquires possession of his own weapon.
infiltrate as part of the same action. Likewise, a man whose weapon is a
19.5 All weapons which malfunction only on their To Hit RNC or the first
flamethrower or a Secondary Weapon may wish to abandon it as a
result RNC drawn are identified by a red, lower case ""x"* on their Per-
hindrance when he attempts to infiltrate. Any man whose listed weapon is a
sonality card and prior to the red numbers which result in a malfunction for
MMG or mortar and wishes to attempt to infiltrate must abandon that
that weapon. Weapons that can possibly malfunction during every Fire
weapon as part of the same action. In all three cases, the weapon/crew
Strength resolution are signified by a red capital **X** before that weapon's
status is not automatically regained upon failure to infiltrate or their return
malfunction number(s).
from infiltration; it must be reacquired as a separate action.
20.24 A man in a group currently occupying a Minefield, or terrain con-
taining a Wire card may not attempt to infiltrate. A man in a group currently
occupying an unforded stream may attempt to infiltrate only with the aid
of a Movement card. Unless the Movement card is a Ford card, that man
would have to draw a RNC to determine if the Ford attempt was successful.
Only if he succeeds in fording the Stream, may he then check for infiltra
tion using that same RNC as the infiltration attempt RPC. Similarly, a
group in Marsh terrain may not attempt to infiltrate until the Marsh card
MNNALE?
ME 2
MOHALI-4
has been covered by placement of two Movement cards.
20.25 A man may not attempt to infiltrate against a group on a Minefield
FIRE 3
card, but may attempt infiltration against men in Stream, Marsh, or Wire-
U PUT POSNER
S PT SFRNHOFE
Marlit Pau.
1354
covered terrain.
2.3 INFILTRA TION RESOL UTION: When checking for infiltration.
the attacker draws a RPC and uses the column equalling the number of
Personnel cards in the defending group as his starting point, but may have
to shift right or left one or more columns due to a wide assortment of cir-
cumstances. Having determined the proper column to check for infiltra-
P: 
tion status, the attacker then determines whether he has drawn a red or
46446
black fandom position number. If the number is red, the attacking man has
infiltrated the enemy position. Place an Infiltrator's chit on the attacking
man's card. If the number is black the man was unable to infiltrate the
fThe American group depicted above is firing at the initial erman group at Relative Range 2 with
enemy position. However, he suffers no penalty for the failed attempt and
six firepower factors allowing it to play the 3 Fire Strength Fire card yielding a final attack strength
may attempt to infiltrate again in a future turn. The player attempting to
of 2 after deducting one for the defender's terrain. The first RNC drawn is a black I which has no
infiltrate may play a Concealed card for each man attempting infiltration.
effect on Bernhoff. The next RNC drawn is a red 6. Posner is unaffected, but a possible weapon
breakdown has occurred. A RPC is drawn bearing a **3* for a fouf-man group, and thereby in-
The Concealed card provides a leftward shift equal to its negative modifier
dicating that PvT Myer's rifle has malfunctioned. The Fire Strength of the American attack is
to the infiltration attempt of the man it was played for.
reduced by one fi9. 13j to I for resolution vs PFC Griess. Nevertheless, the next RNC drawn is a
black S which pins Griess. Griess's card is turned over, and a "*Malfunction" U,S. rifle counter is
20.31 NIGHT: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate during a Night
placed on Myers.
scenario /38.6j, a shift of three columns to the left on the RPC is made to
In the German player turn, his group can only muster one firepower factor ffrom Bernhoff since
determine infiltration status (EXC: 38.6).
Posner can fire neither his own rifle ffi.2/ due to being an assistant crewman of the LMG nor assist
the pinned Griess ft l. 4j, with neither a Fire card requiring only one firepower factor, nor a Rally
20.32 SMOKE: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate and either his
card, the Cerman player opts to have Posner abandon his crew status fll.J3j so that he will be eligi-
and/or the defender's group is in smoke, a shift of two columns to the left
ble to use his rifle next turn.
on the RPC (for every smoke card in effect) is made to determine infiltra-
In his next turn, the American player decides to attempt to repair Myers' rifle. A red ""6** RNC is
tion status.
drawn which permanently disables the weapon. Place an ""Unarmed" chit on Myer's card. If subse-
quently fired on, Myers will defend with a Morale of 4 until he acquires another weapon.
z0.33 BRUSH: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from Brush
terrain, a shift of two columns to the left on the RPC is made to determine
infiltration status.
20.34 WOODS: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from Woods
terrain, a shift of one column to the left on the RPC is made to determine
infiltration status.
20. INFILTRATION & CLOSE COMBAT-
20.1 When an infantry group starts its player turn at Relative Range 5 to
20.35 HILL: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from a Hill, there is a
any directly opposite or adjacent group, the possibility of entering into
one column shift to the right to determine infiltration status.
hand-to-hand combat exists. Close Combat (hereafter referred to as CC/ is
20.36 P/LLBOX: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate against a
entered into and resolved differently from Fire attacks. The opposing
Pillbox, there is a one column shift to the right to determine infiltration
group must be infiltrated before any CC attacks can be attempted.
status.

--- PAGE 14 [OCR] ---
20.37 OPEN GROUND: If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from
20.6CLOSE COMBAT VALUE:Each man has a specific Close Combat
Value/CCywhfchisprinted on his Personalitycard.There are two CCV's
Open Ground terrain, a shift of two columns to the right on the RPC is
printed on each side of the card; the values on the front pertain to the man
made to determine infiltration status.
in an unpinned state and the values on the back pertain to the man while
20.38 PINNED DEFENDERS: There is a one column shift to the left on
pinned: The first valueis always his armed strength; the value following the
the RPC for each pinned man in the defending group when determining
slashis his unarmed strength, However, if the man has changed weapons, is
infiltration status.
performing assistant crewman duties, or is carrying a Secondary Weapon,
20.3g MOVING & INFILTRATION: If the attacker is attempting to
the printed CCVisignored and must be calculated separately. An unpinned
infiltrate from a Moving group, there is a two column shift to the right to
man'srccy equals the sum of his Morale and his Weapon values. An
determine infiltration status. If the defending group is currently moving,
unarmed man has no Weapon value, but neither is his Morale rating re-
there is a two column shift to the right to determine infiltration status. The
duced by-one (19.31)during CC:A pinned.man's CCV is always four less
number of Movement cards in play by each side do not further alter this
than his unpinned CCV,A weapon's CCV is reduced by one ifit is currently
shift. If the attacker is attempting to infiltrate from a group which has
malfunctioning.Weapon values are as.follows:
already been infiltrated, there is a two column shift to the right to deter-
BAR: 2
Carbine & Assault-Rifles: 4
mine infiltration status. NOTE: This Movement penalty is not applied to a
All other Rifles: 5
LMG: 1
man attempting infiltration whose group is not moving. but who has
Machine Pistol: 3
Flamethrower:-1
played a Movement card into the Discard pile to avoid the need to make a
Encumbered with Secondary Weapon: -1*
MMG.ATR:O
Morale Check.
*if only weapon treat as O instead
20.4 All Infiltration column shifts are cumulative, except for those of
20.61 An assistant crewman always has a weapon value of 0 regardless of
Night and Smoke which can never be taken together, but are cumulative
what the other primary weapon in his possession might be. Note that a
with all other shifts. Column shifts below. l or higher than lO are treated as
crewman never'enters CC as the'attacker: if he tries to infiltrate he
1 or l0 respectively.
automatically sheds his ""crew*" status.
[EX: A man attemptinig to infiltrate against a defending group of five
20.62 Every CCv.in man-to-man CCis subject to modification as follows:
men draws the RPC shown at left. In checking for infiltration, he starts
20.621 After all CC pairs for one infiltrating group have-been determined,
contains five Personality cards. He is infiltrating from Brush terrain,
the defending player in CC may playa Concealed card to decrease the CCV
but the defending group contains a pinned man so he checks column 2
of one attacker of his choice prior to the resolution of that particular com-
for infiltration status (5 [number of cards in defending group] -2 [shift
to left for Brush] -l [shift to left for pinned man] = 2). Because the
bat. If he has another Concealed card, he may play it also in defense of
12b34506W890r
number in column "*2b is red, he has succeeded in infiltrating the
aniother of his men about to be attacked by a different attacker. Similarly,
1212144616
enemy group.1
the attacking player in CC may play a Concealed card to decrease the CCV
20.5 INFILTRATION EFFECTS: A man who has infiltrated the
of the defender of his choice. Neither player may use more than one Con-
defender's position.is still part of his group, in his group's terrain, able to
cealed card on any single CC resolution--regardless of the number of men
fire with that group, and subject to fire vs that group. However, he also has
in that single CC.
several special capabilities.
20.622 The primary attacker/defender may modify his CCV by +3 for
z20.51 An infiltrator may double his firepower (ExC: flamethrowers) for
each additional unpinned man attacking/defending with him (20.71) in
any Fire attack by his group vs the group he has infiltrated, and has the
that specific CC regardless of the weapon status of the additional man.
20.7 CC RESOLUTION: CC is resolved by adding the attacker's CCV
20.52 CC ENTR Y: During future turns in which an infiltrator"s group
value and a RNC draw (treating red RNC's as negative values) and com-
opts toengage in CC as its sole action, the infiltrator checks morale (20.21)
paring the total of that to the sum of the defender's CCV and a RNC draw.
or plays a Movement card for each infiltrator heintends to enter CC. All
The man with the lower total is KlA. If the totals are equal, both men are
such CC entry attempts by the same group must be predesignated before
KlA. There are no Terrain Effect Modifiers to CC resolution.
any are attempted. However, if he passes his Morale Check (or plays a
zo.71 If the defender in any CC is part of a multi-man crew, the other
Movement card) his entry into CC is automatic. He merely draws a RPC
member(s)of that crew is also involved in that CC unless his position is also
and consults the column equalling the number of men in the defending
being directly attacked in CC. Although there is more than one defender,
group. The number in that column is the position he attacks in CC. Place
the attacker still draws only one RNC to resolve his attack; the sum of that
his Personnel card on top of the defending Personnel card and continue to
RNC and his CCV is compared only to the total of the RNCand CCV of the
resolve any other GC entry attempts from his group before resoliving that
particular defender whose position he is attacking. If he kills that man, he
CC. Note that CCand Infiltration attempts are two distinct types of action.
must attack again that turn against another crew member; each man draw-
A groupcannot do both in the same turn.
ing a new RNC to resolve their combat. This continues until the attacker is
20.53 An infiltrator loses his infiltrator status only if he is pinned, or takes
beaten, or has eliminated all the defenders in that position.
a prisoner (32.1l), or if his group plays a Movement card (except to
20.72 If two or more men attack the same defender in CC, only one man
Remove Wire), or if he fires, or if the infiltrated group plays a Terrain card
(attacker's choice) attacks, although with the + 3 modification to his CCy
at Relative Range 4 to the infiltrator (or plays two consecutive Movement
for each additional man. If he is eliminated, a second attacker must im-
cards thereby moving to Relative Range 3 in lieu of placing a Terrain card).
mediately attack in a new combat resolution, but without the + 3 modifica-
20.531 An infiltrator has the option of whether or not.to participate (by
tion to his CC for the now eliminated extra man.
adding his firepower) in any fire attack by his group. If he does fire,
20.73 A man who has successfully finished CC is still a member of his
regardless of whether that firepower is doubled or not, the infiltrator loses
group, occupying the terrain of that group, subject to fire against that
his infiltrator status after resolving that attack. If his group can muster
group, and part of the firepower basis of that group. However, if he
enough firepower to use a Fire card without adding the infiltrator's
already has infiltrator status he may keep it touse in any subsequent CC or
firepower, he may keep his infiltrator status.
normal Fire attack against the infiltrated group.only if he has defeated his
last CC opponent by 3 or more in the resolution of their CC.
20.532 If there is more than one infiltrator in a group, some may elect to
20.74 WEAPON CAPTURE: The victor in CC always has the option of
fire (thus losing their infiltrator status) while others do not (thus maintain-
taking the weapon of any man he has just eliminated (except ordnance) in
ing theirs).
CC or removing it from play. Place the proper weapon chit of the
20.54 An infiltrator may not be attacked by ordnance from the group it
eliminated man's nationality on its new owner. The man's previous
has infiltrated. However, other members of his group may be attacked by
weapon remains with him only if it is printed on his Personnel card, but
ordnance from that group.
cannot be used as long as the man has possession of the captured weapon.
The captor's own (i.e. printed) weapon becomes a Secondary Weapon
20.55 An infiltrated group may still move, but if such a move increases the
Relative Range to less than 5, further CC is not allowed until opposing
(2l.l) until he loses the captured weapon. The man may later voluntarily
abandon or destroy his captured weapon only as his group's sole action for
groups can once again close to Relative Range 5. However, previous in-
filtrators of the moving group retain their doubled firepower advantage
the turn.
(even at Relative Range 4) until their infiltrator status is lost as per 20.53.
20.741 A captured weapon automatically malfunctions whenever a red 5
or red 6 RNC is drawn to resolve any Fire attack in which it takes part
20.56 A group may not make a Lateral Group Transfer if it is currently in-
unless a flamethrower (22.l) is also participating in which case the
filtrated or if any of its men have infiltrator status. A man may voluntarily
flamethrower malfunctions instead. No RPC need be drawn to determine
drop his infiltrator status, but only at the cost of his sole action for that
which weapon malfunctions, unless there is more than one such weapon
group.
(including non-fully crewed weapons; 19.15) involved in which case a RNC
20.57 An infiltrator may attempt to acquire any unpossessed weapon of
draw can usually be substituted for the RPCdraw (black: this one, red: that
the infiltrated group as if it were his own group (18.2), unless that weapon
one). A captured weapon which malfunctions is remowved.
still has a designated assistant crewman.
14

--- PAGE 15 [OCR] ---
20.742 If two men eliminate each other in CC their weapons remain in the
2l.4 MALFUNCTION: A Demolition Charge malfunctions oniy if a red 6
infiltrated group for possible acquisition--including acquisition by any in-
RNC is drawn as the first RNC used to resolve combat in an attack in which
filtrator of the group.
the Demolition Charge is used. A Demolition Charge which malfunctions
is worthless. It may not be repaired.
20.& TERRAIN CAPTURE: Whenever the last man in a group is
eliminated while his group is infiltrated, the Terrain card his group
[STOPt You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario B. Before proceeding further, we suggcs!
you play Scenario B until you feel comfortable with the game rules presenied thus far.1
rently infiltrating that group regardless of the movement status of either
group. The captor has the choice of replacing his own Terrain card with
that of the eliminated defender's, or simply removing the eliminated
22. FLAMETHROWERS.
group's cards to the Discard pile. Note that if two different groups can
22.1 The Fire Strength of any attack
claim capture of the defender's Terrain card, it cannot be given to both
which includes a firing flamethrower
IT CA CIRILENKO
CC4.34
CPL KINLENND
groups, but that player can choose which of his groups to give it to. He
Pamhowe
is not subject to negative modifica-
tion for the defender's tefrain, but is
turn into the group which receives the captured Terrain card. Any Move-
subject to modification for the at-
ment cards in play on either the captor or the eliminated group are removed
Ranpt
tacker's terrain. Concealed cards.
when the Terrain card is placed on its new group.
PANIC4CCV.1O
POUT P ENC 24
Smoke, and Wire can be used to
20.9 BERSERK: Any pinned Russian
BERSORK IRRSIOT ANC4
+No Def TEM. No FENY Bonu
reduce the Fire Strength of most
infantryman at Relative Range 5 to an
"Moung Fra Wnl Hahed
MORALEd
PT: 48
Enter 
MIA.7
Na Secondert aipann Allpptd
BERSERK
flamethrower attacks. Moving status
iPinned
enemy group who Panics is not auto-
(12.J halves the strength of a flamethrower attack only if the flamethrower
Acton
matically removed from play. If the Ran-
CCY
is not providing all the necessary firepower for use of the Fire card used in
dom Position Number under the *Or*
that attack.
column of the RNC which caused him
22.2 A flamethrower does not have to participate in any attack by its group
to panic is S his Panic value the man is not killed (6.53), but is considered
(19.f4j if the owner states in advance that he will not use it, although a
berserk. Place a berserk counter on his Personnel card which remains Pinn-
flamethrower carried by a pinned man is always subject to malfunction.
ed side up. If an already berserk man panics again due to subsequent fire he
is considered KlA. A berserk man is not subject to execution by a Com-
22.3 MALFUNCTiON: A flamethrower malfunctions automatically if a
missar (15.53).
red 5 or red 6 RNC is drawn while resolving combat against any defender in
an attack in which the flamethrower is used. No RPC need be drawn to
20.91 A berserk man automatically enters CC without infiltration at the
determine which participating weapon in the attacking group malfunctions
very start of his turn against any group at Relative Range 5 even if his group
(19.13; if a flamethrower is participating it automatically becomes the
would be otherwise barred from entering CC. He does not take a Morale
malfunctioning weapon. A flamethrower malfunctions only if it is being
Check or attempt to infiltrate. After drawing a RPC to determine the
used in an attack, or if its position is drawn on a Malfunction RP while
defender(s) in a multi-man group, he attacks with his Pinned CCv. If
the operator is pinned. Even if the flamethrower malfunctions, the re-
victorious he is automatically rallied and no longer berserk. The charge of a
mainder of the attack for any other participating weapons may be carried
berserk man into CC does not count as an action taken by his group. A
berserk man who is the principal operator of a crewed weapon leaves that
out, and without any negative modifiers to the Fire Strength for the
weapon behind and enters CC unarmed. If victorious in CC he remains
defender's terrain.
unarmed until he reacquires his weapon normally by drawing a black RNC
22.4 The KlA defense value of any man who acquires a flamethrower not
(using an Action in the attempt). Infantry Gun crews are not eligible for
listed on his card is reduced by one as long as he keeps that flamethrower.
Berserk status.
Similarly, a man whose card lists a flamethrower as his principal weapon
20.92 In the rare instance in which a berserk man may not enter CC
has his KiA value increased by one if he discards the weapon.
because the only opposing group at Relative Range 5 has moved away in the
22.5 Vs AFV: A flamethrower can be used against the armored defense
interim, he is rallied and no longer berserk.
value of an AFy, but the Fire card(s) employed in the attack cannot require
more firepower factors than that provided by the flamethrower alone.
regardless of the number of firepower factors supplied by other weapons
participating in the same attack (unless those other weapons also have anti-
armor capability: see 28.7).
21. DEMOLITION CHARGES-
2l.1 SECONDARY WEAPONS: There are four types of secondary
22.6 A flamethrower does not have its firepower doubled due to infiltra-
weapons: Demolition Charges (21.2), Panzerfausts (30.3), radios f40), and
tion or Flanking Fire.
Anti-Tank Magnetic Mines (3iJ. Secondary weapons are represented by
chits. Only unarmed men or those armed with a rifle, assault rifle, carbine.
23. PILLBOX-
BAR, or machine pistol may carry a secondary weapon. No man may carry
23.1 Whenever the Pillbox card is used in a scenario,
more than one secondary weapon.
PILLBOX
Cireup B
a Scenario Special Rule states the player who is to
2.11 SQUAD CAPACITY: The possession of Anti-Tank type secondary
receive it. It is removed from the Action deck and
weapons is limited by scenario definition. In DYO scenarios, these are
given to him prior to setup.
limited to a maximum of one/squad for the U.S., two per squad for the
23.2 The player receives the Pillbox card in addition
German, and three per sguad for the Russian. No sguad, regardless of
to his normal allotment of cards and must place it
nationality, may have more than one Demolition Charge per squad.
first on his Group B prior to Preparation for Play
Squads are defined as 10 or less men for the Germans, 12 or less for the
Terrain Placement (3.6.
U.S., and 1s or less for the Russians. Infantry Guns and AFy's are not
counted in sguad totals.
23.3 The maximum number of men in a group with a
Pilibox card is three. No mortar, secondary weapon.
21.2 DEMOLITIONCHARGE:A man
1214
41814
bazooka, panzerschreck, I.G., or AFy may occupy a
Demo Charge
No
armed with a Demolition Charge may
Pillbox card.
attack with that weapon only once and
X6
Fire Card
only on the turn he has infiltrated the
Eflect:8
23.4 The defending group occupying a Pillbox receives a -4 modification
Infirate
Required
enemy position. If he wishes to infiltrate
to the Fire Strength of the group attacking it, but may never use a Con-
Only
without placing his Demolition Charge.
cealed card. Ordnance must use its non-boxed Effect Number rather than
he must so state before attempting infiltration in which case he will be
its boxed (anti-armor) Effect number when attacking a Pillbox.
unable to use the Demolition Charge until he once again infiltrates an
23.5 The defending group in a Pillbox is not subject to CC attacks, nor can
enemy position.
they attempt to infiltrate from a Pillbox. However, opponents may attempt
21.3 DETONA TION: A Demolition Charge attacks the infiltrated group
to infiltrate a group in a Pillbox so as to double their firepower or make a
with a Fire Strength of 8 (prior to any modification for concealment and/or
Demolition Charge attack.
defender's terrain) and does not require the play of a Fire card. No Terrain
23.6 A Pillbox cannot be attacked by Overrun (29), nor does the + 1
Effects Modifiers for the attacker's terrain apply. A Demolition Charge
modification for Elevated Fire apply to attacks made against a group
attack must be the only attack made by its group against the target group
defending in a Pillbox.
during that turn. Any friendly men other than the man carrying the
Demolition Charge currently infiltrating the target group are also attacked
23.7 The occupants of a Pillbox cannot fire at (or be fired on by) a group
by the Demolition Charge, although they use their own group's terrain and
behind it (i.e. occupying range chit 6). However, once behind a Pillbox, an
therefore their terrain effects modifiers may vary.
adjacent group could **retreatt* back to range chit 5 and still be considered

--- PAGE 16 [OCR] ---
2s.2r A group mayinot make an ordnance attackin addition to a normal
"behind*' the Pillbox. An adjacent group behind a Pilbox at rangechit S
firepower attack, nor.may two or more ordnance-weapons combine to
attacks the Pillbox with Flanking Fire. The occupants of the Pillbox can
makea singleattack.Therefore,an AFV which wouldotherwisebecapable
attack an adjacent group behind them at range chit S only after halving the
of both a normal firepowerattack and an ordnance attack may use only
Fire Strength (fractions rounded down) of any Fire card(s) they play.
one type of attack per turn. However, two different pieces of ordnance in
23.8 Normal Flanking Fire is ineffective against a Pillbox.
the same group could each fire in the same turn at the same target as one
Action, but each would requfre play of its own Fire card and would resolve
its own To Hit attempt (and the effect of any hit obtained) separately.
24. MINEFIELD-
z5.3 TOHIT: Ordnanceattacksareresolved in two steps.Beforeaffecting
24.1 Minefield cards are a specialized form of
the defending group, the firingordnancemust obtain a hit on the target. To
Terrain card used in only a few scenarios. In most
obtain a hit, the firing player must play a Fire card of any value. This
games they are treated as Cower cards for one or both
entitles the firer to draw a RNC. If the RNC drawn is one of the numbers
nationalities (2.22/.
listed for that ordnance at its current Relative Range from the target group,
24.2 A Minefield is a specialized form of Open
a hit has been obtained and is resolved as per 25.4. The color of the RNC is
Ground terrain with no modifiers to either offense or
immaterial except as specified by 25.31-.33. If a hit is not obtained, play
defense.
ends for that group for that player turn.
25.31 If thedefending group is moving, or Hull Down (28.9), any red RNC
24.3 A Minefield card can be placed on an opposing
group in lieu of a discard (4.3). In order to place a
is considered a Miss.
Minefield card on an opposing group, that group
25.32 If the firing ordnance is moving, any red RNC is considered a Miss.
REZ
must be currently eligible to receive a Terrain card
Note that only certain AFV types may fire ordnance while moving
(i.e. it must have a Movement card in place,
25.33 If both the target and the firing ordnance are moving, or if the target
uncovered by another Terrain or Wire card, or two Movement cards in the
is Hull Down and the firer is moving, any red RNC is considered a miss and
case of movement out of a Marsh. Unlike most other Terrain cards, a
the To Hit frequency of the firing ordnance is reduced by one.
Minefield card cannot be rejected by the recipient.
25.34 If an infantry defender has a Concealed card, he may play it prior to
24.31 When a Minefield card is placed, it results in an immediate attack on
the resolution of the To Hit process to reduce the To Hit frequency of the
one of the positions in that group. A RPC is drawn to determine the posi-
firing ordnance for that attack by the amount listed on the Concealed card
tion within the group which is attacked, and then a RNC is drawn and added
(see 25.6).
(color has no effect) to the attack strength of the Minefield card to deter-
mine the effect on that defender.
25.35 Except as used to define Hull Down or to prevent fire into/out of a
Gully, Terrain cards do not affect the To Hit process.
24.32 Wire is the only card which may modify a Minefield attack.
25.4 HIT STRENGTH: Once a hit has been obtained, the strength of that
24.33 Vs AFv's: Minefields have a boxed Fire strength of 1 when attack-
hit is determined by adding the To Hit Random Number on the RNC just
ing an AFV, but may attack only the Flank Armor defense value of the
drawn to the Effecr Number listed on the ordnance card. (EXC: IG/AFV
AFV. If the combination of the Fire Strength and RNC draw (treating a red
ordnance firing at an AFV target does not add the To Hit Random Number
RNC as a negative number) 2 the Flank Armor defense value, the
just drawn; instead it adds a number equal to the Relative Range between
armored target is immobilized (28.44).
the firer and the target.) The color of the RNC has no effect; all numbers
24.4 ExiT: All Movement cards placed on top of a Minefield card must be
are added. Having now determined the total strength of the attack (after
played in a sideways mode (with no Flanking Fire advantages) so as not to
any modification for terrain and/or movement), it is resolved separately
change the range chit of that group. If a player places a Terrain card on top
for each target in the defending group by drawing a new RNC and adding
of a Minefield card which has been played against his own group which is
any black number or subtracting any red number drawn as per a normal
covered by only one Movement card, he leaves the minefield but the
fire attack (6.5.
Minefield immediately attacks again, However, this time every position in
25.41 The movement status of the defender alters the Fire Strength of a hit
the group undergoes a separate attack with a separate RNC although the
against non-AFV targets only.
colors of the RNC's are observed as negative or positive modifiers to the
25.42 Most ordnance weapons have two ordnance Effect Numbers; the
attack strength. However, if the opponent places a Terrain card on the
boxed value is used against the armored defense values of an AFV: the
group, the group escapes the current Minefield card without further attack.
unboxed value is used against all other targets.
If a player places two sideways Movement cards (one per turn) on top of a
Minefield card, he leaves the minefield and may then play a Terrain or
25.43 The Random Number on the To Hit RNC is never added to the
Movement card on his group in a subsequent turn without being attacked
Effect Number of a hit if a black O RNC would notalso haveresulted in that
by the Minefield. Whenever a Movement card is played on a Minefield for
hit.
any reason (including removal of Wire), a RNC must be drawn. If that
25.5 MALFUNCTION: Ordnance weapons malfunction (19.12) only if
RNC is red and > the number specified on the second line of the
they draw a red 5 (EXC:ATRJor red 6RNC when attempting To Hit-not
Minefield card's notes, another man in the group must undergo Minefield
during the resolution of a hit. Some ordnance weapons which are more prone
attack as per 24.31.
to a malfunction do so when drawing a red 4, red 5, or red 6 when
24.5 REMOVAL: If the group in the Minefield contains any unpinned
attempting to hit. These malfunction numbers are listed in red after a red
man, he may attempt to clear a path through the Minefield without playing
"*x"" on their respective Personnel cards.
a Movement card and thereby remove the Minefield card by drawing a
BRUSH
black RNC > the Fire Strength of the Minefield. The attempt to remove
FO PATWOLFF
the Minefield card counts as that group's only allowed action for the turn.
If successful, the Minefield card is flipped over to represent Open Ground.
MOVEMENT
However, if a red 5 or red 6 RNC is drawn, that man must undergo
Feepaer
Minefield attack as per 24.31.
24.6 Minefield cards are never returned to the Action deck once played on
an opposing group. They are removed from the game instead.
PT: 19
MORAAE2
MDBALE4
24.7 CLOSE COMBAT: A man in a Minefield cannot attempt to
infiltrate, or be attacked in CC. If a man goes berserk in a Minefield he is
111
A PRC TOWE
13044
eliminated.
126349
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario C. Before proceeding further, we sug-
506W890r
55555
gest you play Scenario C until you feel confortable with the rules presented thus far.l
25.ORDNANCE
25.1 Any Personality card containing a To Hit column instead of, or in
addition to, a firepower column is an ordnance weapon. Ordnance
[EX: PFC Towle is at Relative Range 4 to the moving target group and because he lacks a
weapons require a hit to be scored against a target before resolving the
crewman to load his bazooka f3o.2) he must use the bracketed TO HiT numbers to gain a hit. The
first RNC drawn is a black O resuiting in a hit. Note that had it been a red O, the shod would have rmissed
actual Fire Strength of the attack. The different types of ordnance in the
because the target group is moving. The Fire strength of the hit is 2 (Effect Number [2] + To Hit
game include: mortars, Infantry Guns (IG), AFy's, and a variety of light
Number drawn [o]  2), which, despite modifications remains a 2 (2 [Fire Strength] -I [Brush] +1
anti-tank weapons (Panzerfausts, Panzerschrecks, Anti-Tank Rifles, &
[Movement] = 2). The second RNC drawn is a black 6 which kills Wolff (2 + 6 >8). The third
RNC drawn is a red 1 which leaves Schultz unaffected (2 - 1 = 1 < 2).1
Bazookas).

--- PAGE 17 [OCR] ---
25.6 TO HITFREOUENCY:A To Hit frequency of **0-1**is reduced by
28. ARMORED FIGHTING VEHICLES (AFV"S)-
one by treating it as a ""o"", a To Hit frequency of "*o*"is reduced by one by
28.1 An AF card represents not only the depicted Armored Fighting
treating it as a ""}"", a To Hit frequency of """* is reduced by one by treating
Vehicle, but all of the men which man that AFV as well AFV cards are
it as a *"2", etc. Similarly, a To Hit frequency of "*3** is increased by one by
treated the same as Personality cards except as otherwise specified below.
treating it as a *"2", a To Hit frequency of *1** is increased by one by
An AF is, in essence, its own group.
treating it as a **o-f**+ etc.
25.7 SMOKE: Smoke does not affect the Fire Strength of an ordnance hit.
but does modify the To Hit frequency of ordnance firing into and/or from
it accordingly.
HullnnL P
25.8 SMOKE PLACEMENT: An IG may not place Smoke. U.S. and
Gerrnan AFy's with an anti-armor Effect Number of 4 or more may place
Smoke on any single group, friendly or enemy, not in Marsh terrain and
within their LOS as their sole action for that player turn provided the AFy
player has a usable Smoke card to play. Firing Smoke in this manner does
not require use of a Fire card.
Se Mmning tirr Allusrd
NAIIAHI!SI
 le Hi M rd lemchlired
FRONT
BACK
26. MORTARS-
28.2 ASSAULTGUNS: An Assault Gun is a turretless form of AFV.The
26.1 A Mortar is an indirect fire ordnance weapon. The
lack of a turret made it cheaper to produce, but less effective against mobile
CCV-3/3
To Hit frequency of a mortar varies depending on
targets because the traverse of its main armament was restricted. Assault
104 1
SCMWH.2
whether the weapon is fully crewed or not. If the weapon
Guns are identifiable in the game by the underscore of their name on their
is fired only by its principal Personality, the bracketed To
Personnel card. An Assault Gun is treated as an AFy except as modified
Hit freguency numbers must be used.
Ta He ub
below.
1131
26.2 A mortar may not fire while moving, or in Pillbox,
0-1L11
28.21 The To Hit frequency of Assault Guns is reduced by one against
Marsh, Stream, or Buildings terrain. However, a mortar
NA1FP
NA/2FP
moving targets.
may fire into or out of Gully terrain regardless of the
WORALES
elevation of the target, and is never subject to Hull Down
28.22 An Assault Gun may not fire its ordnance while moving.
To Hit penalties.
28.23 An Assault Gun which is Bogged or immobilized must deduct two
26.3 MINIMUM RANGE: Unlike other ordnance weapons, a mortar can-
from its To Hit frequency.
not fire beneath a minimum range. However, the principal operator of a
28.3 AFV DEFENSE VALUES: An AFV card has two Armor defense
mortar has a small arms firepower value at those ranges.
values printed on each side of the card plus a Morale and CE Defense value
26.4 Woods terrain does not modify the Fire Strength of a mortar attack.
on the front of the card. The Armor and Flank defense values represent the
armored defense strength and is listed on both sides of the card; only
26.5 CRITICAL HITS: A mortar can attack only the non-armored
defense values of an AFy because it is not a boxed (i.e. anti-armor)
this value. The MORALE and CE values are affected only by unboxed
weapon. However, if a mortar scores a hit on an AFV with any black RNC
attack values. Ordnance firing on an AFV must decide in advance of the
and then draws ablack6RNCtoresolve thatattack (a black 5or 6RNC for
RNC draw whether it will attack the AFy's Armor defense value with its.
an OT AFV) it has scored a Critical Hit on that AFV instead of affecting
boxed Effect Number or the AF's Morale and CE defense values with its
the non-armored defense values of the AFV. A Critical Hit achieved with a
unboxed Effect Number. Ordnance cannot attack both the boxed and
black 6 RNC immobilizes the target AFV.A Critical Hit achieved with a
unboxed defense values of an AF with the same attack.
black5RNC destroys an Open-Topped AFV.
28.3i If there are insufficient boxed firepower factors in a group to use a
particular Fire card (22.5 & 28. 7), the boxed defense values are not affected
27.TARGET ACQUISITION-
by an attack using that card.
27.1 Only a mortar, IG, or AFV ordnance weapon may
28.32 The TEM of an AFy's current terrain does not affect fire vs the
qualify for Target Acquisition. Acquisition allows an
Morale and CE defense values of that AFy.The TEM of an AFy's current
ordnance weapon which has fired at its present target
+1
terrain does affect the fire strength of a hit against the Armor and Flank
previously to increase the To Hit frequency by one under
TO HIT
defense values of that AFV (ExC: Hulf Down : 28.92/. The movement
Frequency
certain conditions. Regardless of whether a hit is obtained,
status of the defender does not alter the Fire Strength of a hit against AFy
whenever one of these ordnance weapons fires at a target,
targets.
that target's group ID chit is flipped over to show that it has been acquired
28.4 ORDNANCE ATTACK Vs AN AFV: If the AFV's Armor defense
unless either the firing or defending group is moving (EXC: 27.3). If that
value following the "k * is  the final result number of a qualifying anti-
weapon had previously acquired another group, that group's Acquired chit
armor (i.e. boxed firepower or Effect Number) attack, the AFy is
is flipped back to the normal side. An ordnance weapon may never acquire
eliminated. If the AF's Armor defense value following the "i"" is = to the
more than one target at a time, nor increase its To Hit frequency by more
final result number of a qualifying anti-armor attack. the AFy is
than one. If the side has more than one ordnance weapon capable of
immobilized (28.44). If the AFV's Armor defense value following the "*s**
acquisition, place a half inch Group ID chit on the group to indicate the
is = to the final result number of a qualifying anti-armor attack, the AFv
acquiring weapon if necessary.
is stunned (28.45). Some AFv's have the same defense values for both
immobilization and stun results as noted on their Personnel cards by the
27.11 Ordnance cannot acquire a target if either the firing weapon or the
form ""i;s#" rather than ""i#/s#"". An AFy target hit by that final result
target is in Smoke.
number of a qualifying anti-armor attack must draw another RNC to
27.12 If a target is already acquired when subsequently covered by Smoke,
determine whether the AFV is immobilized (red) or stunned (black).
the Smoke -1 and Acquisition + I modifiers both apply.
If the firing ordnance announces it will attack the unarmored defense
27.2 If an ordnance Personnel card malfunctions, fires at another target,
values of the AFy instead of the Armor defense values, and the AFy's
is pinned,Buttoned Up, engaged in CC,or loses observation during a Night
MORALE defense value is face up and  the final attack result number.
scenario (38.2), it loses Acquisition. The Acquisition chit is also flipped back
the AFV is flipped over to its ""Pinned""/""Button Up*" side. If that same
to the front side if either the firing ordnance or the target group plays a
final attack result number 2 the CE Defense value, the AFV also suffers
Movement card which remains in play on the table and is not immediately
a Commander Killed result. Otherwise, there is no effect. Note that AFy
removed to the Discard pile. (Playing a Movement card to remove Wire, or
cards with "*PINNED** printed on the reverse are Open Topped vehicles
unsuccessfully ford a Stream, does not suffice to remove Acquisition.)
and cannot be ""Buttoned Up"", only ""Pinned*".
27.3 An AFy cannot retain acquisition of one group while firing any
28.41 Should an attack qualify for both a Kill and a Pinned/Button Up
armament at another. However, it may retain acquisition while firing its
result, the Kill result takes precedence.
MG at the presently acquired target group.
28.42 PINNED: A Pinned result applies only to an Open Topped AFV (or
[Ex: On turn I, a fully crewed German mortar fires at a stationary group at Relative Range o. It
IG). While Pinned, it may neither fire nor move. A Pinned card may be
needs to draw a o RNC to get a hit. Regardless of the outcome, its target group.flips its ID chit to
unpinned (flipped back over) by playing a Rally card of strength 3 or more
show its Acquired status. If, on subsequent turns, the Acquisition is still in effect the mortar will
on that group. A stunned AFV or a Pinned OT AFV lacking a Rally 3 card
need a RNC draw of o or I to get a hit on that target.J
may still play a Rally l or Rally 2 card on the AFV as its sole action for that
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario D. Before proceeding further, we sug-
group for that turn; in which case the AFV remains pinned, but in future
gest you play Scenario D until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.l
17

--- PAGE 18 [OCR] ---
turns could be rallied by play of another Rally card(s) bringing the total
AFv with a "'Stun 6* chit is stunned again, it is eliminated, Any excessive
Rally capability of the group to 3 or more. The Rally card remains in play
Rally capacity beyond that needed to reduce a Stun 6 chit to a Stun 3 chit is
on the group until the AFy is rallied, stunned, or eliminated.
lost; it cannot be used as a partial credit towards femoval of the Stun 3 chit.
28.421 HERO: There are two occasions in which a Hero card can be
28.46 FLANK SHOT: Anytime an AFv is the target of ordnance fire
played on an AFV as other than a partial Rally credit. Immediately follow-
which enjoys a Flanking Fire advantage, that AFy defends with its
ing any attack which pins an AFV (before the AFV is flipped over to its
FLANK defense values instead of its normal ARMOR defense values. In
Pinned/Buttoned Up side) a Hero card can be played to negate that pin
addition to normal Flanking Fire opportunities, an AFy is subject to a
result provided the AFv has not suffered a Commander Killed result in the
Flank Shot whenever it has a Movement card in play in the sideways mode.
same attack. A Hero card can also be played on any Buttoned Up AFy
In addition, should an AFy become bogged (or immobilized) it must use its
which is neither stunned nor subject to Commander Killed penalties to flip
Flank defense value vs anti-armor ordnance attacks until it becomes mobile
that AFy card back to its CE side. A Hero card played on a stunned AFV
(not necessarily moving) again.
counts as the equal of a Rally card. Neither usage counts as an action. A
Hero card can never be played to increase the firepower or To Hit frequency
28.5 MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS: An AFV may never enter Marsh.
of an AFy.
Placement of Marsh on an AFV during Prepare for Play (3.6J is not allowed.
However, an opponent may play a Marsh card on a moving AFv so that the
28.43 BUTTONED UP: Any other AFV whose Morale defense value is
AFy will be forced to change its forward or reverse move to a sideways
equalled or exceeded by any attack becomes Buttoned Up when it is flipped
move, or remove its sideways move altogether (7.32).
over. An AFy which Buttons Up remains Buttoned Up for the duration of
28.51 An AFV in Woods can leave that Terrain card only by playing a
the scenario (barring play of a Hero card) whether it Buttons Up voluntarily
Movement card in the sideways mode.
28.52 An AFV which enters a Gully, Woods, Wire, or Stream must check
qualities as a consequence. An AFV starts CE, Should it wish to Button Up
for Bog (28.53 when the Terrain card is played (even during Prepare for
voluntarily, it must expend an Action doing so.
Play), unless that Terrain card is rejected.
28.431 COMMANDER KILLED: If the AFV's
28.53 BOG: An AFV checks for Bog by
MORALE defense value is ≤ the final attack result
COMMANDER
BOG
drawing a RPC. It always checks for Bog
number, the AFV merely Buttons Up or is Pinned as stated
KILLED
Remove with
under the group column specified on its
Move & RnC
in 28.4. If, however, the final attack result number is
-1 TH/MGFS
Assault Gun:
card for Bog. The first number in the
Flank
also > the Crew Exposed (CE) value(or a Sniper KIA has
-2 To Hit
vs INF: 1 left
Bog rating is the group column used to
occurred), the AFy commander has been killed and the
Defense
check for Bog in Gully. Woods. or
AFV suffers other penalties in addition to being Pinned/Buttoned Up.
Stream terrain. The second number (following the ""w"") is the group
Place a Commander Killed chit on the AFy card. Henceforth. that
column used to check for Bog in Wire. If it draws a red position number,
ordnance will have its To Hit frequency and Overrun strength reduced by
the AFV is Bogged and marked with a ""Bog* chit. The AFV may not move
one, and any non-ordnance attack it makes will suffer a reduction of one to
as long as it is Bogged, but its Fire capability is not affected (ExC: Assautt
its Fire Strength.
Guns, 28.23J. The Bog chit can be removed as a separate action in a subse-
28.431l An OT AFy may conceivably suffer a Com-
quent turn by playing a Movement card into the Discard pile and drawing a
mander Killed result more than once because when it is
rallied it is again CE. Should such an AFV suffer a second
to rid itself of a Bog chit does not qualify the AFv as a moving target.
2 Crew Killed
-2 TH/MGFS
Commander Killed result, flip the Commander Killed chit
28.6 Movement cards never modify the Fire Strength Resutt Number of
Vs INF: -2 Lett
over to the **2 Crew Killed** side. Its To Hit frequency is
attacks against an AFv or its crew. Against armored targets, Movement
reduced by two, and any non-ordnance attack it makes will
cards only affect the To Hit process of ordnance (25.3/-.32.
suffer a reduction of two to its Fire Strength. If an OT AFV suffers a third
28.61 Concealed cards cannot be played to aid the defense of an AFV or its
Commander Killed result it is eliminated.
crew.
28.4312 Each Commander Killed result on an AFV also serves as a one
28.62 A Hull Down AFy does not receive any terrain modifier to the effect
column shift to the left when checking for infiltration against an AFy.
of ahit on it.
28.44 IMMOBILIZATION: An im-
IMMOBILIZED
mobilized AFy is marked with an Im-
28.7 INFANTRY VsOPEN TOPPEDAFV:All Personalitycards have an
Assaut Gun:
mobilized chit and may not move (nor
inherent boxed firepower of I at Relative Range 5 which can be used
-2 To Hit
make an Overrun attack) for the rest of
against an Open Topped AFV's boxed defense value in addition to using
2nd IM: Stun
the scenario. An immobilized vehicle
their normal firepower at that range against the AFy's unboxed defense
FLANK
which is immobilized a second time is
value using a second RNC for the combat resolution.
stunned instead. An immobilized (or Bogged) AFV is not considered a
[EX: If three riflemen are at Relative Range 5 to a CE German halftrack, they would have a total of 9
moving target or a moving firer. An immobilized AFy always defends
unboxed firepower factors to use in playing a Fire cardts) ws ihe exposed crew of that halftrack.
against anti-armor attacks with its Flank defense values.
Although they could Pin the halftrack, and perhaps kil the commander, this would not immedialely
destroy the AFy. However, they also have an inherent boxed 6 firepower of 3 vs an Open Topped
28.441 Any Movement card curreritly in place when an AFy becomes
AFy at Relative Range S, so if the Fire card they play does not require more than three firepower
immobilized, bogged, or stunned is removed. The range chit of the AFy
factors, the same Fire Sirength card can be used to attack the halfirack a second time with another
RNC, but this time against its armot defense. Therefore, if the three riflemen play a ""Fire 2** card
does not change. If the AFy has two Movement cards in place when it
requiring 3 or fess firepower factors against the halftrack and draw a black RNC of 2 or less. they
becomes immobilized or stunned, the top one is placed in the Discard pile
have no effecl ws the crew, However, regardless of the firsi RNc drawn, they may draw another
and the other is flipped over to represent the Open Ground the AFV is in.
RNC to use against the AFv itself; if they draw a O ot any black RNC ihey will destroy ihe halftrack:
Otherwise, the AFy is considered stationary on its last played Terrain card
a ted I RNC would stun il, or immobilize it (depending on the color of the next RNC drawni. This is
the only way a Pinned AFy can be affected by infantry altacks without boxed fircpower weapons
(EXC: A moving AFy on a Wall or Hill Terrain card which becomes
outside Cc. Note that had the infantry played a higher strength Fire card, no second attack agains!
immobilized, bogged, or stunned must flip that Terrain card over to Open
the AFy itself could have been made by that group during that tumn because they would have lacked
Ground.
The necessary boxed firepower factors.]
28.45 STUN: Place a **Stun 3*chit on an AFV which has
28.71 If an AFv is adjacent to a friendly infantry group which has the
been stunned. An AFy may not move nor fire while under
same range chit number as the AFV, the owning player may deduct one
a Stun chit. A stun result flips any CE AFy card over to its
from the strength of any inherent boxed firepower infantry attack (28.7)
Pinned/Button Up side, and removes any accumulated
STUN 3
against that AFy.
PIN/BU
Rally credits an already pinned/stunned AF may have in
28.72 Similarly, friendly infantry in an adjacent group with the same range
NoMove/Fire
play. A Stun 3 chit can be removed only after play of a Rally
chit number as an AFV, may deduct one from the Fire Strength of all
card(s) of strength 3 or more on that group in the same manner that a pinned
attacks against them (EXC: Snipers, Minefieldsj in addition to its normal
AFV.is rallied (28.42J. Note that removal of a Stun 3 chit by itself is not suf-
terrain modifications.
ficient to also rally a pinned AFy with the same action, although that is
possible with play of a Rally 6 or Rally All card (or even a Rally 4 or Rally 5
28.8 CLOSE COMBAT Vs AN AFV: An AFV may not attempt to
card in combination with prior accumulated Rally credits).
infiltrate, but may be attacked in Cc by any armed man (including
28.451 If an already stunned AFy is stunned again, the
Secondary Weapons) which has infiltrated the AFy group during that
Stun 3 chit is flipped over to the **Stun 6** side. It takes a
turn. The *"group*" column of the AFV used to determine the RPC draw is
08
not I. The group column checked is **2b* for a Buttoned Up or Pinned
Rally card(s) of strength 6 or more to remove a *"Stun 6**
AFV, *"4c** for a CE AFV, and "*5o** for a CE Open Topped AFV.
chit, or of strength 3 or more to reduce it back to ""Stun 3*
Column shifts to the left or right on the RPC due to vision or terrain
status. A Rally All card is necessary to remove both a Stun
No Move/Fire
6 chit and unpin a pinned AFv in the same action. If an
(20.31-.39/ are handled normally. In addition, there is a one column shift to
18

--- PAGE 19 [OCR] ---
the left on the RPC for each Commander Killed result previously suffered
29.4 An AFV making an Overrun attack .against a group defending in
by the AFV. The actual resolution of CCagainst an AFV is much different
Brush, Buildings, Walls, or Woods terrain or Smoke is susceptible to
from that against infantry. The defender (i.e. the AFV) does not draw a
irmrnobilization or elimination as a result.
RNC. The attack is resolved solely on the basis of the infiltrating attacker's
29.41 An Open Topped AFV attacking an unpinned man would be
RNC and modifications to the attacker's strength.
immediately eliminated if it drew a red 5 as its Overrun attack resolution
28.81 The CCV of a man has no effect in CC vs an AFV. The attacker's
RNC, and immobilized if it drew a red 6.
strength is the sum of a RNC draw (subtracting red numbers; adding black
29.42 Any other AFV attacking an unpinned man would be immediately
numbers) and the following cumulative modifications:
immobilized if it drew a red 6 as its Overrun attack resolution RNC. Note
CLOSE COMBAT MODIFIERS VS AFV
that a Hero card could be played immediately prior to an Overrun attack to
Foreach previous CCattack vsthe AFv that tutn
rally a pinned man and also qualify a red 4 (1o.44/, red 5,or red 6 RNC-for
Attackeris berserk .
immobilization or elimination of an OT AFV (or a red 5 or red 6 for
Attacker is wounded
immobilization of other AFy's) during its attack on that man.
Attacker is heroic.
+1
29.43 An AF making an Overrun attack against a group in a Gully,
Attacker has Anti-Tank MagneticMine*,or Demo Charge
+3
AFyis in anytypeof Buildings Terrain
Woods, Stream, or on Wire is subject to Bog as per 28.53 and must check
+2
AFVis in Woods,Wall,or Gully Terrain
for Bog before resolving any Overrun attack.
AFV is in Brush Terrainor Smoke (per each case)
+1
29.44 An AFV which is irnmobilized, Bogged, or eliminated during its
AFVisCE
Overrun attack may not resolve attacks against any remaining defenders
AFy hasfriendly,adjacent,unpinnedinfantryal samerange (pergroup)
+1
AFVis Buttoned Up
during that turn.
AFy Commander is killed (per crewman lost)
+2
29.45 An Overrunning AFV which is immobilized or Bogged during an
AFvis Immobilized or Bogged.
+2
Overtun attack is not necessarily considered in the defender's terrain. It is
AFVis Open Topped: :
considered in the last terrain occupied by its own group. (Note that if its last
*if the modifier is used, the Secondary Weapon is removed.
two Terrain/Movement cards played were both Movement cards, it would
AFVELIMINATED: 2 7
Immobilize:6
No Result: 1-5
AttackerEliminated ≤0
be considered in Open Ground.) Even though an AFV may be Bogged due
to making an Overrun attack against defenders in a Gully, Woods, or
28.82 The attacker's modified strength must total 6 to Immobilize the
Stream and has to free itself from Bog normally (28.53/, it is not necessarily
AFV, or 7 or more to eliminate it. If the attacker's modified strength is Oor
in that terrain and therefore is not affected by it.
less, the attacker is eliminated. Any modified strength between I and 5 in-
clusive is treated as No Result. Whatever the outcome, the attacker loses his
29.46 Even if a group is in the act of movement, it is still considered at least
infiltrator or berserk status.
partially in the terrain of the last played Terrain card unless it has since
played two Movement cards (in which case it is in Open Ground). For
28.83 If there are multiple CC attackers vs.the AFV, each.man's attack is
example, an AFV making an Overrun attack against a moving group which
resolved separately, one at a time (attacker's choice as to which is resolved
has played a Movement card over a Woods card would be susceptible to the
first), until each attacker has resolved his attack or the AFV is destroyed.
adverse results of 29.41-.43.
z8.84 Play of Concealed cards is of no assistance in CC vs an AFV other
29.5 An AFV which has made an Overrun attack (barring immobilization
than their possible use during infiltration attempts enabling them to.make
or Bog) remains in the act of mnovement after the attack resolution until a
the attack in the first place.
Terrain card is played on it in a subsequent turn. To make another Overrun
28.9 HULLDOWN:OnlyanAFV or IGcan beHull Down.An AFV/IG
attack, it must play another sideways Movement card, even if it is already
is Hull Down if it is on a Wall card, or on a Hill card being fired on by
"moving"*, However, in a subsequent turn after having made an Overrun
ordnance which is not also on a Hill card. Placing a Movement card on
attack, it may 'play another Movement card in the Advance or Retreat
either terrain type eliminates Hull Down status even though the group is
mode instead and change its range chit accordingly-even to the extent of
still considered in partial cover of that Hill/Wall.
moving through a blocking, directly opposite group it has just Overrun.
Note that even though an AFy may have just overrun an adjacent group, it
28.9l Hull Down status does not impede the To Hit frequency of a mortar.
may play a Movement card to advance through the blocking group directly
28.92 A Hull Down AFy or IG does not receive any terrain modification
opposite it only if it has already overrun that directly opposite group. It
to the Fire Strength of a hit against it.
may never move through an adjacent enemy group; i.e. the AFy
28.93 A Hull Down AFV cannot be immobilized; an immobilization result
automatically returns to the relative position on the table marked by its
is treated as a stun result instead.
group ID chit.
28.94 An AFy is never considered Hull Down to Flanking Fire.
29.6 An overrunning AFV must attack all of the targets in the defending
group if it remains capable of doing so.
[NOTE: The effectiveness of infantry against armor has been overstated here for gamesmanship
purposes. If players desire a more realistic treatment of unsupported infantry vs armor they should
[SToP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario E. Before proceeding further, we suggest
agree beforehand to reduce by one the Morale and Panic values of all infantry opposing an AFV
you play Scenario E until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.j
without friendly armor support.1
29.OVERRUN ATTACK-
29.1 An AFy may performa special typeof attack called an Overrun if it is
neither Pinned, Immobilized, Stunned, or Bogged. An Overrun attack can
30. LIGHT ANTI-TANK WEAPONS-
be made vs any adjacent or directly opposite non-AFV group at Relative
30.1 Bazookas, Panzerschrecks, Anti-Tank Rifles, and
Range 5 provided the defending group is not occupying Marsh, Minefield,
Panzerfausts are infantry ordnance weapons with anti-
FLE PVT MHALOFT
or Pillbox terrain.
armor capabilities. The Bazooka, Anti-Tank Rifle, and
Panzerschreck weapons are listed as the primary weapons
29.11 If any of the weapon systems of an AFV is inoperable or currently
of certain Personality cards. The Panzerfaust is a Second-
malfunctioning its OVR value is halved (quartered if a flamethrower) with
ary Weapon (21.J) which must be carried in the form of a
all fractions rounded down. An AFV may never Overrun if it doesn't have
Panzerfaust chit on the Personality card of the man carry-
currently functioning MG or FT armament.
ing it. They cannot be fired together with other weapons in
1 To H Faeueny
29.2 An Overrun attack does not reguire play of a Fire card. Instead,a
MORALE:3
Pf2 12
their group, nor can they be fired while moving.
Movement card is played in the sideways mode (and may also qualify the
30.2 CREWED WEAPONS: Bazookas and Panzerschrecks are crew-
AFV for a subsequent Flanking Fire bonus against any adjacent group if
served weapons. If an assigned, unpinned assistant crewman is not present
the card played was a Flank card). The strength of the Overrun attack is the
the weapon must use the bracketed To Hit frequency (lI.I) when it fires
total of the OvR value and a RNC (ignoring the color of the RNC: all
and is more subject to malfunction (19. 15). Bazookas and Panzerschrecks
numbers are added). This Overrun Strength is then modified by any of the
may be used against any kind of target--using respective basic Effect
defender's Terrain, Movement, or Concealed cards in play. Finally, this
Numbers for armored and non-armored targets.
modified Overrun strength attack is resolved separately for each defender
in the attacked group by adding a RNC draw (subtracting any red numbers)
30.3 PANZERFAUST: A Panzerfaust
for each defender.
Panzertaust
can only be fired against an AFV target
May Fire
29.3 All the modifiers that would apply to a normal Fire attack (6.4) apply
and only against the Armor defense value.
Elect:5
It can be fired only once. Regardless of the
equally to an Overrun attack with the exception of any Terrain cards in the
R3: 0
Only Once
R4: 0-1
outcome, the Panzerfaust chit is removed
attacker's group. For example, an Overrunning AFV would not receive a
R5: 0-2
from play after its first To Hit attempt.
+ I modification to its Overrun strength for occupying a Hill.
.19

--- PAGE 20 [OCR] ---
3o.4 MALFUNCTION: Like all ordnance weapons, a Bazooka or
If the man chosen as the guard is subseguently eliminated, the prisoner(s) is
Panzerschreck malfunctions only as a result of its To Hit RNC draw (25.5):
merely placed beneath another man in the same group without counting as
an Action. One man may guard any number of prisoners. A player may
However, unlike other ordnance weapons, a Bazooka or Panzerschreck
change guards automatically as the sole Action of a group for that turn pro-
malfunctions on a red 4, red 5, or red 6 To Hit RNC. A Panzerfaust does
vided the new guard is not currently pinned.
not malfunction.
32.21 A guard has his firepower and CCy halved (fractions rounded
3o.5 Note that only the Anti-Tank Rifle uses AP ammunition. and con-
down) for the duration of the scenario and cannot attempt to infiltrate. If
sequently, the Hit Strength of the other weapons is determined by adding
the guard has an ordnance weapon, he must reduce its To Hit freguency by
the To Hit Random Number on the RNC just drawn to the Effect Number
Oone.
listed on the ordnance. Unlike IG/AFy ordnance, range is not a factor in
32.22 Prisoners are not freed unless every man in the capturing group is
determining the Hit Strength (25.4j of these weapons.
eliminated. Freed prisoners take no further part in the game and are re-
30.6ANT/-TANK RIFLE: An Anti-Tank Rifle (ATR) may be used against
moved from play, but do deprive their prior captor of any Victory Points
for their capture, rout, or elimination. Prisoners automatically accompany
either armored or infantry targets. If used against an AFy, it is fired as an
their guard in any individual transfer he makes. Prisoners do not check for
ordnance weapon. If used against infantry it need not gain a hit; it merely
combat results and therefore cannot become pinned, wounded, or killed.
adds one firepower factor to the attacking group's total firepower. An
ATR has limited penetration capabilities. To be effective vs armor, it must
32.3 AFy's and IG's can neither take nor become prisoners.
not only hit the AFy, but must hit it in a vulnerable area as well to even be
considered a ""hit**. Therefore, the To Hit Numbers of an ATR reflect the
difficulty of obtaining effective hits vs an AFV. Once an ATR obtains a hit
vs an AFV, the effect of that AFV is equal to the Relative Range at which it
is obtained plus the draw of a RNC (adding black numbers, subtracting red
33. WOUNDS--
numbers). Unlike all other ordnance weapons, an ATR improves its To Hit
Frequency by one whenever it is entitled to Flanking Fire.
[As may well be imagined, the majority of wounds inflicted in comnbat are extensive enough lo effec-
tively reniove the recipient from further consideration for game purposes. Such injuries are generally
lumped into the KlA or Rout category and serve to remove the man from play. However, a small
percentage of wounds inflicted in combat are not totally incapacitating and allow a man to continue
fighting. albeit at reduced effectiveness, The scales of many a firefight have been tipped by the con-
31. ANTI-TANK MAGNETIC MINES-
tributions of a wounded soldier who refused lo quit.]
3l.1 An Anri-Tank Magnetic Mine
ATMM
33.1 OCCURRENCE: Wounds lacking
(hereafter referred to as A TMM) is a
Detender RNC
WOUNDED
CC: +4
in the severity reguired to be considered
Secondary Weapon which is usable only
 AFV: if RPC
No Int
OVR: if ANG
0/2FP
No Moving Fire
an outright KlA may possibly occur
Or: 1-5 is IM
against an AFV. It was used primarily by
-1TH
New Deck: RN
anytime an infantryman Routs, or would
6-0 is EL
the Russians from 1944 on to compen-
RNC before R
Only 1 weapon
otherwise be eliminated by a KlA result
sate for their lack of an effective light
which occurred as a result of a RNC
anti-tank weapon (such as the Bazooka). Germans may use ATMM's, but
generating a final attack strength exactly equal to the lowest number re-
U.S. forces cannot. See DYO values (43J for purchase price.
quired for a KiA. That result is treated as a wound instead if the Random
3l.2 An ATMM is usable only in CC against an AFV or by an unpinned
Position Number of that RNC under the ""7w** column is equal to the
defender being overrun.
man's printed Morale value. Place a Wound chit on the man, but leave him
in the same mode he was in prior to the infliction of the Wound tpinned or
3l.2l CLOSE COMBAT: A man with an ATMM which is attacking an
AFV in CC may add 4 to his CCV (28.81j. Regardless of the outcome of the
normal). Wounds do not occur in Cc.
attack, the attacker loses his ATMM.
[EX: Cpl Jones has a Morale value of 4 and a Panic Value of 6. An attack generating a KiA against
him could possibly be commuted to a Wound result instead only if the final attack result was an 8
31.22 Vs OVERRUN: An unpinned defender with an ATMM may
while he was in good order, or a 6, 7, 8, or 9 while he was pinned. Assuming this was the case, a 4
possibly destroy or immobilize its attacker if that AFV draws a red RNC
Random Position Number under the 7w column of the R Nc used to determine the final attack tesult
and fails to pin or eliminate the defender durirg the Overrun. Note that a
would cause a wound instead of a KlA.1
Hero card could be played to unpin a defender (even one pinned by the
33.l1 CE AFV and IG crews are not eligible for Wound results.
Overrun attack), and thus make him eligible to attack with his ATMM. The
33.2 F/REPOWER EFFEC7S: The firepower of a wounded man is halved
unpinned defender with an ATMM then immediately draws another RNC.
(fractions rounded down) individually. If the man's primary weapon is
If that RNC is black, the defender checks the proper RPC column of that
ordnance, he must deduct one from the To Hit freguency of that weapon
RNC for the Overruning AFV (""2b*" for a Buttoned Up AFv, "4c*" for a
instead. A wounded man may never engage in Moving Fire, although his
CE AFV, or "*So** for an OT AFV). If that RPC is red the vehicle has been
weapon is subject to malfunction during Moving Fire from his group
eliminated or immobilized. The ""Or" colunn of the same RNC is then
(19. 14).
checked: if the "Or** RPC is 1-5 the AFV is immobilized, if 6-0 the AFV is
eliminated. An ATMM is not considered used during an Overrun attack
33.3 CREWED WEAPONS: A wounded man may be a designated assist-
unless the AFy is immobilized or eliminated.
ant crewman to a crewed weapon with no detrimental effects to that
weapon's performance. An unpinned, wounded man who is the principal
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario F. Before proceeding further, we suggest
operator of a crewed weapon may exchange weapons with his unpinned
you play Scenario F until you are familiar with the rules presented thus far.1
33.4 REPAIR: A wounded man must draw a black RNC before attempt-
32. PRISONERS-
ing to repair a malfunctioning weapon. If he draws a red RNC, he may not
32.1 Prisoners are worth five Victory Points and can be taken in one of two
attempt repairs that turn but has still used his sole action for that group for
ways.
that turn.
32.11 CLOSE COMBA T: A player may capture a prisoner by willingly
33.5 CCV: A wounded man may not attempt to infiltrate, but if already an
deducting two from his CCV prior to the resolution of any CC attack. If he
infiltrator he may attempt to enter CC. A wounded man's CCv is equal to
wins the CC, the defeated man is taken prisoner by his captor. A man who
his Pinned CCV while in good order, or egual to his Pinned & Unarmed
has taken a prisoner automatically loses his infiltration status.
CCy while pinned. If a wounded man is both pinned and unarmed, he is
automatically defeated in any CC in which he is defending alone. A wounded
32.12 ROUT: Any man at Relative Range 5 to an infantry group who
man does not add the + 3 CCv modifier for additional men to any man he
Panics and is to be removed by Rout ("Or** of the RPC > Panic Value:
defends or attacks with in CC.
6.531) surrenders instead to an enemy group at Relative Range 5 (captor's
choice if more than one such group is available), Prisoners can be declined
33.6 PORTAGE: A wounded man may not carry both a primary and
by the captor prior to their capture in favor of a Rout result, but not after-
secondary weapon; he must abandon one or the other. The abandoned
wards.
weapon is subject to normal acquisition rules.
32.2 GUARD: Prisoners, once taken.
33.7 ENDURANCE: The debilitating effects of even a relatively minor
GUARD
are placed beneath the card of any one
unattended wound will increase with the passage of time. Therefore, dur-
1/2FP or
man in the capturing group of the cap-
ing his first turn at the start of each new deck a RNC must be drawn for
-1 To Hit
turing player's choice. That man may be
each wounded man. If the RNC is red, that man is no longer capable of.
No INF
pinned, wounded, or even unarmed but
game actions and is removed from play as a KIA. The player may play a
he may not be the designated assistant
Hero card immediately prior to the RNC draw to exempt a man from this
crewman for any weapon. If the designated assistant crewman is the only
draw reguirement for that deck. A wounded man who is wounded again is
possible choice, he is relieved of his assistant crewman duties automatically.
considered KlA unless a Hero card is played immediately.
20

--- PAGE 21 [OCR] ---
3.s VICTORY POINTS: A wounded man who survives the scenario
35. REINFORCEMENTS
(even if he routs) is worth one Victory Point to the opposing player; two
 35.1 Reinforcements are available only when so specified by the scenario
Hiciory Points if subseguently removed as a KlA.
and must enter play as Group E (ExC: see Team Game, 4l.S). The scenario
will specify both the forces which compose the reinforcements and the time
33.9 HERO: All of the above effects can be suspended for one player turn
period which must elapse before they are available. The time elapsed is
byplay of a Hero card. Note that play of one Hero card could temporarily
always expressed in terms of the number of times the Draw pile has been
cancel Wound effects (33.2-. 7) for one turn, while simultaneous play of the
emptied and reshuffled. In DYO scenarios, reinforcements are available
other Hero card could also give that man additional heroic capabilities
for a discounted purchase price depending on the time elapsed before their
(7.44.45,28.81
availability.
PToPl four have read all that is necesssary to play Scenario G. Before proceeding further, we sug-
35.2 Once the Draw pile has been emptied and reformed enough times to
rgou play Scenario G until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.l
make reinforcements available, they may enter the game as one separate
group anytime during their player turn by playing a Movement card.
35.3 A reinforcement group must appear at range chit O unless it enters by
playing a Flank Movement card. If a Flank Movement card is played, the
4. INFANTRY GUNS
highest range chit in play by that player at the start of the current turn. This
4.1 An Infantry Gun (hereafter referred to as IG) is a form of Personality
might entitle the group to Flanking Fire status if the other requisites of
card representing an ordnance weapon and its entire multi-man crew. The
Flanking Fire are met.
Inherent crew of an IG is inseparable from the weapon and shares its fate.
35.4 Reinforcements always enter play in Open Ground unless the owner
Other personalities may not man an IG, nor may its crew acquire and use
simultaneously plays a Movement, Concealed, and Terrain card. The
other weapons.
Terrain card is placed on the group, and the Movement and Concealed
34.2 An IG may form its own group or combine with other Personality
cards are placed in the Discard tray (regardless of nationality discard
cards to form a group. In either case, the IG always occupies just one posi-
limits). This is the only instance in which a player can play both a Terrain
tion within that group despite the multi-man nature of its inherent crew.
and Movement card on the same group in the same turn. When using this
option, a player may take no other action or discard any other card during
H4.3 MOVEMENT: A group containing an IG which is presently occupy-
his player turn.
ing any terrain other than Open Ground must play two Movement cards
(one per turn), the first of which must be played in a sideways mode, before
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario H. Before proceeding further, we sug-
it is eligible to move into new terrain of its own choosing and/or change its
gest you play it until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.1
fange chit. A player may always discard a Terrain card on an opposing IG
even though it has only one Movement card currently in play.
4.31 A group containing an IG which is presently occupying Open
Ground may move to new terrain after playing one Movement card, unless
theterrain moved into is a Hill. Moving an IG onto a Hill always requires at
least two Movement cards (the first being played in a sideways mode)
36. ENTRENCHMENTS-
regardless of the Terrain card last occupied.
36.1 An infantry group may attempt to
Entrenched
H.32 A group containing an IG may never enter (or start in) Marsh.
entrench as its sole action for that player
00
NA if pinned
turn provided it is not moving and con-
4.33 An IG may not fire while moving.
or in Wire:
Remove if
tains no pinned men, Wire, or friendly in-
Moving
4.4 An IG is equipped with an armored gunshield and therefore has two
filtrators. An entrenchment attempt is
KlA and Morale defense values. The boxed KlA defense values are used
successfully resolved by drawing a *o**
only when the IG is attacked solely by ordnance using its unboxed Effect
RNC of any color, and placing an Entrenchment chit on the group's
Number, or by Flanking Fire of any kind,or by infantry at Relative Range
Terrain card. Any other RNC is treated as no result although the attempt
5using itsinherent boxed firepower, or by an ATR firing as ordnance. The
still counts as that group's sole action for that turn. No group may have
unboxed value is used to defend against all other attacks.
more than one entrenchment at any one time.
EX: An unpinned German IG being attacked at Relative Range 4 by three riflemen would require a
36.2 An entrenchment entitles its group to deduct one from the Fire
final Result Number of 9 or moreto eliminate the IG, or 5 or more to Pin the crew. However, if those
Strength of attacks against it in addition to the terrain effects of the Terrain
ant riflemen were attacking at Relative Range 5 with a Fire card requiring 3 or less firepower, they
could use their inherent anti-armor firepower for a free second attack with another RNC (28.7)
card it currently occupies. Entrenchments are immediately removed
gainst the IG in which a final result of 7 or more would eliminate the IG, and a final result of 3 or
whenever their group plays a Movement card for any purpose other than
Cone would pin it.J
removing Wire. Movement cards played for Transfer or Infiltration
H.5 CONCEALMENT: A Concealed card does not modify any attack
attempts by individual men do not remove entrenchments from their
group, but neither infiltrators nor individual transfers receive the -1 TEM
fincluding CC) against an IG unless the IG has neither fired nor moved dur-
benefit of that entrenchment when their group is attacked.
ing the game. Otherwise, an attack on an G is resolved normally with
standard modifications to the attack Fire Strength (6.4). A Concealed card
36.3 Entrenchments can be placed only in Open Ground, Hill, Woods, or
can be played for a group containing both infantry and an IG which has
Brush.
fired or moved, but it will lower the Fire Strength of an attack vs the infan-
36.4 An AFv or IG cannot occupy an entrenchment. However, a group
try only; it will not lower the Fire Strength of the attack resolution vs the
with both an IG and infantry may still entrench, but the -1 TEM applies
IG, A Concealed card can never be played for a group containing an IG
only to the infantry in the group, not the IG.
against an ordnance To Hit attempt unless that IG has neither fired nor
moved during the game.
36.5 RUSSIAN USAGE: Although it is an action, a Russian entrenchment
attempt does not prohibit the Russian from discarding during that turn,
34.6 PINNED: A Pinned IG may neither move nor fire. A Pinned IG re-
although it does reduce his maximum discard capability for that turn by
quires a *Rally 3** (or better) card to return the IG to its unpinned status
one for each group which makes an entrenchment attempt.
(even if the IG is no longer fully manned; 34.71).Hero,Rally 1 and Rally 2
cards can be played as a partial credit towards eventual Rally.
4.7 CLOSE COMBAT: An IG cannot infiltrate or go berserk.If attacked
in CC, it defends with a three man crew as per 20.71. [NOTE: Although
37.PARTISANS-
gun crews often consisted of more than three men, we will use three as the
37.1 Partisans are available only to the Russian player and only at special
standard number for all game effects.J The CCV of each crewman, in turn,
cost in DYO scenarios (43J or when specified by the scenario in play.
s equal to the IG's Morale value if unpinned, and 4 less than its Morale
value if pinned. All three crewmen are considered equal operators of the
the game (down to a minimum of one) and may never be equipped with an
IG or AFV. All partisans have their Panic value (but not their Rout value)
34.71 Should one crew member of an IG be killed in CC (or by a Sniper),
reduced by one. A partisan force can never include more than one leader in
the FG card is marked with a Commander Killed (28.431) chit and suffers
any scenario. Otherwise, partisans have all the capabilities of regular
the To Hit penalties for that status. If a second crew member is killed, the
Russian troops as well as some special capabilities.
Commander Killed chit is flipped to the2 Crew Killed side and its future To
37.2 CONCEALMENT: Partisans may add one to the strength of any
Hit attempts will suffer a reduction of 2 in its To Hit frequency. The IG is
Concealed card they play solely for Concealment or CC purposes; a -1
eliminated entirely only if all three inherent crew members are killed or
becomes a-2,a-2 becomes a-3,etc.
panic.
21

--- PAGE 22 [OCR] ---
37.3 MOVEMENT: All Movement cards played sideways by the partisan
be removed. A starshell cannot be placed on any currently illuminated
player are assumed to have automatic Ford capability. Partisans may also
group; placement of a starshell must be preceded by a successful observa-
exit a Marsh card after playing only one sideways Movement card.
tion attempt.
37.4 SNIPERS: A partisan player does not lose his ability to play Sniper
38.5l A starshell illuminates all enemy groups at Relative Range 5 to the
cards until after the German has made two successful Sniper checks; each
detected group, and any adjacent friendly groups at the same range chit as
after different Sniper attacks.
the detected group.
37.5 AMBUSH: Provided both the target and firing groups contain no
38.52 Observation attempts and Night Fire Effects do not apply to groups
already pinned men and the firing group is stationary in Woods or Brush
illuminated by a starshell.
terrain, the partisan player may add the strength of any Concealed card he
A[1]
A[3]
plays to his attack. Note: this is the actual printed strength; not the increased
B [2]
B[3]*
strength of 37.2. In this case the negative status of the Concealed card is
ignored. Note that playing a Hero card to rally the only pinned man in a
group after the declaration of an attack but prior to its resolution does not
[in the example above, Black Croup B has placed a starshell on Red Group B. Black Group B and
Red Groups A & B are all illuminated by the starshell.J
make that attack subject to ambush rules, although a subsequent attack
may be.
38.6 INFILTRA TION: f an attacker attempts to iniltrate during a nigh
scenario f20.3//, a shift of three columns to the left on the RPC is made to
[EX: An Ambush attack using a Fire 3 card and a Concealed -l card would be equal to a Fire 4 card.]
check the infiltration status, unless the group to be infiltrated is currently
37.6 BOOBY TRAPS: A partisan player may play a Minefield card in the
illuminated by a starshell.
conventional manner except that it only attacks one man and only when it is
38.7 Observation is not necessary to make a Sniper or Minefield attack, or
discarded on a moving group(24.3ij. Immediately after resolving its
to place Terrain cards on an opponent's moving group. However, observa-
attack, the Minefield card is removed from play--it does not count as a
tion of a group at the proper range is necessary for Retrograde.
Terrain card.
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario J. Before proceeding further, we suggest
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario I, Before proceeding further, we suggest
you play Scenario J until you feel comfortable with all the rules presented thus far.l
you play Scenario 1 until you feel comfortable with the rules presented thus far.j
39. TROOP TYPES-
IThe rules of the game presented thus far have been for simulating small unit actions between
38. NIGHT-
average forces of the major powers. These ""average** forces are referred to as ""Line"" troops.
Howevef, every nation had both higher and lower grades of troops which saw action during various
3g.1 Smoke has no effect during a Night scenario even for those groups
points in the war. Just as Partisans provided an interesting change of pace from Russian regulars.
illuminated by a starshell.
you may find it interesting to simulate the actions of these "telite" or **second line"" units with their
varying capabilities, The size of each nationality's card hand and discard capability is unchanged
38.2 OBSER VA TION: In order for a group to attack or infiltrate at night .
from the basic game except as modified below.1
39.1 CONSCRIPTS: Conscripts are Russian second line troops. Con-
only one specific opposing group. If successful, it may then fire on that
scripts have a maximum discard capability of two per turn. Conscripts
group or take any other action it could normally take in a daylight scenario.
could make one entrenchment attempt and still discard one card.
If unsuccessful, it may not take any other action including CC during that
turn. An observation attempt counts as an Action taken only if it fails to
39.2 GUARDS: Guards are Russian elite troops. Guards may take one
detect an enemy group. Note that a group in a Gully could not attempt
action and still discard up to two cards. Guards could take one Action, plus
observation unless it were at Relative Range S, sighting for a mortar, or
an entrenchment attempt, and still discard one card.
attempting to sight a group on a Hill (and vice versa as regards sighting a
39.3 GREEN: Green troops are U.S. second line troops. Green troops
group in a Gully).
have a maximum discard capability of one card per turn, and only in those
38.21 Observation attempts are strictly voluntary. A group may wish not
turns in which they take no other actions.
to attempt observation so that it can be assured of performing some action
39.4 PARA TROOPS: Paratroops are U.S. elite troops. Paratroops may
other than attacking. The effects of observation are for that turn only.
take one action and still discard one card, or take no actions and discard
38.22 Observation of an opposing group does no good to any group other
two cards. In addition, Paratroops always have an inherent firepower of 1
than the observing group (i.e. observation of Red Group A by Black Group
at Relative Range 5 even if unarmed, but may use this firepower only in
A does not entitle Black Group B to fire at Red Group A).
conjunction with a Fire card with a black RNC.
38.3 OBSER VATION RESOLUTION: For a group to observe an enemy
39.5 VOLKSGRENADIERS: Volksgrenadiers are German second line
group at night, the player must draw a RNC (ignoring colors) < the
troops. Volksgrenadiers must reveal their discards. A Volksgrenadier can
current Relative Range between the groups. (To observe a group at Relative
discard a Cower card only if he has taken no actions during that turn.
Range O, a **1** must be drawn (see 25.6). For purposes of observation
only, the current Relative Range is modified by + 1 for each of the follow-
39.6 Ss: SS are German elite troops. An SS player may discard up to two
cards, but only if he has taken one or less actions during his turn.
ing circumstances:
1.) Each Movement card of the observed group currently in play:
39.7 In DYO scenarios, elite forces must have a minimum Morale value of
2.) The observed group is an AFV:
2: second line troops have a maximum Morale value of 4. A side in any
3.) The observed group has already been fired on during that player
scenario must be composed entirely of the same type of troops.
turn by another group:
[STOP! You have read all that is necessary to play Scenario K, Before proceeding further, we sug-
4.) The observed group fired (not in CC) in its last player turn.
gest you play it until you feel comfortable with the game rules presented thus far.1
38.31 For purposes of observation, the current Relative Range is modified
by -1 if the observing group is a Buttoned Up AFV.
38.4 NIGHT FIRE EFFECTS: The Fire Strength of all Fire cards played
at night for infantry attacks are halved ffractions rounded down). Note
40. ARTILLERY-
that this does not apply to attacks by ordnance, Minefields, Snipers+ or
4o.1 Artillery support is available to a side only if it has a functioning radio
Demolition Charges. Ordnance attacks at night reduce their To Hit
carried by an unpinned man in the same group with an unpinned SL ASL.
frequency by l at all ranges.
or Commissar. The leader does not have to carry the radio.
38.41 The Fire Strength of a Night attack using Moving Fire (12. JJ would
40.2 FIRE MISSION: In order to use his
be halved twice, rounding fractions down before the second halving
RAD10
radio to call in artillery support, the
MALFUNCTION
occurs. Moving ordnance Night attacks would require black RNC's for a
player must play a Radio card as his sole
Repair: 4-6
hit and would have to deduct one from their To Hit frequency as well.
action for that group for that turn. No
X5-6
Remove: 3-6
38.5 STARSHELLS: An unpinned
RNC
Fire card is used. The player seeking
Starshell
Efect: 5.
Squad Leader (not an ASL or AFV)
artillery support then draws a RNC. If
Starshell
whose group has just detected a target
the RNC is black, his Fire Mission is accepted and he may attack the target
group at night at Relative Range 1-5 may
group of his choice (even those out of his LOS) with a basic Attack Strength
RR5
place a starshell *"I** chit on that group
of 5 prior to modification for defender's terrain and movement status. If
as his group's sole-allowed action for that player turn. At the end of the
the RNC is red, his Fire Mission is either not accepted or inaccurately placed
observed player's turn, he must flip the starshell 1 chit over to the reverse
and no attack takes place. The defender may play a Concealed card prior to
side. Following the observed player's next turn, the starshell "*2*" chit must
the RNC draw to reduce the Fire Mission's chances of effective placement.

--- PAGE 23 [OCR] ---
A Concealed -1 card would reduce the frequency of effective placement
41.422 If the LOS Divider card is a Woods or Buildings card, there is no
RNC's to Black 1-6; a Concealed -2 card would reduce it to a Black 2-6,
- Line of Sight between the two games unless both the firing and defending
and a Concealed -3 card would reduce it to a Black 3-6. Regardless of the
groups are on Hill terrain.
outcome, the group is charged with an Action taken, and the Radio card is
4i.423 If the LOS Divider card is a Brush, Wall, or Marsh card there is no
placed in the Discard pile.
Line of Sight between the two games unless the defender and/or firer are on
40.21 A Fire Mission is resolved in the same way as an ordnance attack
Hill terrain.
except there is no To Hit process (other than the placement RNC described
41.424 Mortars may fire from one adjacent game to another regardless of
in 4o.2) and therefore no play of Concealed cards to aid the defender. In
the LOS Divider or the position of the defending or firing group if the SL's
addition, there is no modification of the attack strength due to Relative
in the adjacent games are in Radio Contact (see 41.7), and the firing mortar
Range or the non-existant To Hit RNC draw. The 5 Attack Strength is
is in the same group as its SL.
modified only by the defender's terrain (EXC: Woods) and movement
status, and the individual RNC (subtracting red RNC's, adding black
RNC's) drawn to resolve the attack on each man in the target group.
4l.5 TRANSFER: A player may transfer all or part of his group which is
s0.22 Vs AFV's: Artillery attacks only the non-armored defense values of
adjacent to the other game (Group A (or Z) for a transfer to the left, Group
an AFy because artillery is not a boxed weapon. However, if the artillery
D (or E) for a transfer to the right) into that game as reinforcements if cer-
draws a black 6 RNC to resolve its attack on that AFV (black 5 or black 6if
tain conditions are met. Note that "*Group Z** identity chits are provided
the AFV is OT), it has scored a Critical Hit on that AFV instead of affecting
for use instead of Group E whenever a Group D (or E) transfers to the right
the non-armored defense values of that AFy. A Critical Hit achieved with
into an adjacent scenario so that it may enter the new scenario adjacent to
a black 6 RNC immobilizes the target AFV; a Critical Hit achieved with a
that player's Group A. All unique rules pertaining to Group E as rein-
black 5.RNC destroys an OT AFV.
forcements also apply to Group Z.
40.3 RADiO: A radio chit is considered a Secondary Weapon for all pur-
41.51 The group cannot contain any pinned, bogged or immobilized
poses. A Radio card cannot be used as a Rally card during any turn in which
elements--even if those elements were to stay behind.
it is used for the Radio.
41.52 The group cannot be at Relative Range S with any enemy forces in its
40.4 MALFUNCTION: A radio malfunctions on a red 5 or red 6 RNC
own game, nor can it be encircled.
when drawing for placement of his Fire Mission or in communication with
41.53 The group must be capable of unhindered movement (i.e., it cannot
another scenario sector in a Team Game (41.7). It is repaired or permanently
currently be on a Wire, Marsh, Minefield, or Stream card, nor contain an
eliminated in the same manner as all other weapons.
IG requiring two Movement cards to move).
40.5 In DYO scenarios, players have the option of purchasing larger
41.54 The group must play a Movement card in the retreat mode with
caliber artillery support with a greater attack strength.
appropriate effects to the group's range chit and Relative Range. On the
ISTOP! You have read all that is nccessary to play Scenario L.Before proceeding further,we suggest
very next turn, those forces being sent to the other game (if still mobile)
you play Scenario L until you are comfortable with the rules presented thus far.1
may move off of the Retreat card and out of the game, by playing a
sideways Movement card on the LOS Divider card dividing the two games.
At that time, they become Group E (or Z) regardless of the number of
friendly groups in the adjacent game. Any remaining forces of the group
which wish to stay in the original game (including now Pinned units) may
take a separate action of their own as they are now considered an independ-
ent group.
41.55 Group E (or Z) on the LOS Divider card is considered perpetually
moving in the terrain of the LOS card for purposes of receiving and making
attacks until they enter the other game as reinforcements. Neither player
may place Terrain or Alternate Terrain cards on the LOs Divider, although
the transferring player may place Movement and Smioke cards there. The
Movement card in play on the LOS card does not double as the Movement
card required for entering play as reinforcements, nor does it count as a + I
modifier to attacks against the transfer group once the group enters the
4I. TEAM PLAY-
game by playing the required Movement card to leave the LOS Divider card
4l.1 UP FRONT can be played between teams of two or more players.
and its Movement card(s).
although a second game is required for each two additional players.
41.56 The transfer group itself never blocks fire possibilities (41.4)
41.2 Team games proceed as if two or more two-player games were being
between boards, although the terrain it occupies may. A transfer group on
the LOS divider card is subject to fire from any group in either adjacent
German players must end their turn before any Allied players may start
game, and may also make such attacks-but always at Relative Range O.
theirs, and vice versa. All German players sit on the same side of the table.
4l.57 Once on the LOS Divider card, control of Group E (or Z) belongs
41.3 LOS DIVIDER: During Prepare
solely to the allied player in the game being moved into. It can be rallied
Los Drvider
for Play, an Action card is drawn and
only by cards from that player's hand, and it can be moved only as arriving
Flre: Mo Group
placed between each game with the ter-
Interanng:
reinforcements (35.3) by cards from the new owner's hand. The transfer
Y's Transter:
rain side face up if it is a Terrain card
group could return to its original game, but only via the required cards for
+ 1 Movining
other than a Pillbox, and the Open
reinforcement entry from the new owner's hand, and only at his option.
RRO
Ground side face up if it is not. This card
The leadership capabilities of any leader in the transfer group cannot be
is the Line Of Sight Divider card and determines the terrain between the
used by the new owner to restore his hand capacity until the leader leaves
two games and, consequently, if and how forces of each game may interact
the LOs Divider card-even though he now controls that leader. If, due to
with the adjacent game. Place the LOS Divider chit on the card and use it to
a transfer between games, two SL's or two acting SL's are present in the
separate the two games.
same scenario, that player's hand capacity is not reduced for the pinning or
removal of a SL unless both are pinned and/or eliminated.
41.4 Fire between groups of different games is always conducted at
41.58 If the LOS Divider card is a Marsh card, an AFV may not attempt
Relative Range O regardless of the range chits in play for the respective
transfer. Similarly, if the LOS card is a terrain type requiring a Bog check.
groups. Overrun and infiltration are not allowed between forces of
any transferring AFV must so check.
different games. Sniper attacks and Flanking Fire are allowed between
forces of different games.
41.5sl A transfer group may not make its reinforcement entry into the
new game from a Marsh LOs Divider card unless it has first placed a
4l.4i Fire into a different game must be resolved before attacks from that
second Movement card on top of that Marsh card. Similarly, if the transfer
same game are resolved against the same target.
group contains an IG it may have to play another Movement card on the
4l.42 Before resolving a Fire attack against a group in a different game
LOs Divider before it is eligible to move into the new game.
the attacker must check the LOS Divider card to determine if an attack is
41.582 The transfer group may not move onto a Stream LOS Divider card
possible between the two games.
until it has first successfully forded the Stream as per 8.53. Should it fail to
41.421 If the LOS Divider card is a Hill card, there is no Line of Sight
ford the stream it may attempt to do so again in subsequent turns without
between the two games and no attacks (except Sniper) may be made
first playing another retreat so long as the other requirements (41.52-.53)
between the two games (ExC: 41.424).
are still met.
23

--- PAGE 24 [OCR] ---
which denotes their defense values, rank, and experience. The owning
4l.59 Only one group per side may
transfer between the same two games.
player must use the men called for by the scenario if they are still available.
Scenario Won
Forces transferred to the LOS Divider
If not, he must choose other men from his roster with the same weapons
No Transfer
card are considered no longer part of the
(EXC: feaders may be armed differentiy) which will fill the infantry
to this Game
sender's force for Scenario victory con-
requirements of the scenario to be played. However, he cannot have more
rom
ditions, and constitute reinforcements to
than one SL and one ASL. If he has no men available armed as per the
the recipient once they enter his game, Once a player has won his scenario.
scenario requirements, he must revive the listed man through the replace-
it remains won even if his force is subseguently eliminated due to action in
ment procedure (42.4lJ except for those who are a SL, ASL, or Com-
an adjoining scenario. A Transfer cannot be made into a scenario which is
missar. ExC: A player may replace any listed man armed with a Rifle with
already won or lost. Note, however, that even though a player has won his
another man armed with a Machine Pistol, but only if no other men armed
with Rifles are available to replace that man (and vice versa).
scenario, his remaining force can *"break** if he transfers enough men to an
adjacent game to reduce his own force to the point where casualties already
42.2 The player can choose which man from his roster of available men
sustained would exceed half of his remaining force. In this case. the
will be the SL and/or ASL if he does not have the one(s) specified by the
transferred men would remain in play as reinforcements for the recipient.
scenario. However, a SL must have the rank of SSG, SGT, CPL, JR SGT.
but any remaining men (and their controlling player) would be incapable of
or Commissar, must have a KiA value of 8, and must be armed with either a
further action.
Machine Pistol, Rifle, or Assault Rifle. Note: Carbines, Semi-Automatic
Rifles, and Bolf Action Rifles are all interchangeable for purposes of
4l.6 Action cards from one game never enter the other game. Action cards
choosing a replacement with fhe same weapon. An ASL must have the rank
played on the LOs Divider should be returned to their proper deck's
of CPL, JR SGT,PFC, or Commissar and a KIA value of 8.An ASL can-
Discard pile as soon as they are no longer needed for display on the LOs
not have a higher rank than the SL. If no men with these gualifications are
Divider.
available, the player must pay for a transfer (42.5/. If an ASL armed with a
4i.7 RADIO CONTACT: Players on the same team may not converse nor
LMG is needed to be the SL for a scenario, he may do so, but must
reveal the contents of their hands to their partners in other games unless
exchange weapons (using the proper weapon chits) with another listed man
they are in radio contact. Radio contact is allowable only between unpinned
priot to the start of play.
SL's with an unpinned radio in their group. Radio contact is established by
42.3 Once a few scenarios have been played in a Campaign Game, the
playing a Radio card and drawing any non-malfunction RNC as the sole
defense values of men will often vary from those printed on their card.
action of a single SL's group (it cannot be used to rally men also). Radio
Therefore, players should place Morale and/or Panic value chits next to
contact is maintained until either SL is pinned, eliminated, or infiltrates.
those Personality cards with a defense value which has changed to other
4i.8 VICTORY CONDITIONS: The team which has won the most in-
than its printed value. The black numbered chits are new Morale values: the
dividual scenarios is the winner. If the teams win an egual number of
red numbered chits are new Panic values. Additional chits bearing the term
scenarios, the team having recorded the most casualty Victory Points is the
"'sSG*", *"SL* or *"ASL* are available for men elevated to that status. ln
winner. Note that a team game can consist of any number of games being
addition, a limited number of "blank  Personality cards are provided for
played side by side using any mixture of scenarios. For play balance pur-
each weapon type and nationality so that players may pencil in new values
poses, the best method is to allow one team to select the scenarios being
for play if they prefer. Remember that the CCy of a man whose Morale
played in each game, and to allow the other team to select the side it wishes
value or weapon has changed must be calculated separately.
to play.
42.4 ROSTER: A player updates the records of each of his men until that
4l.g GAME CONTINUA TION: In the Team Game, a player's role does
Personality is lost by CC, a KIA result, capture, or non-survivable Panic,A
not usually end when he has accomplished his scenario Victory Conditions
man who is removed from a gaime due to Rout is considered to have survived
or broken the opposing squad. As long as any of his teammates continue
the scenario in good health and remains on the player's Campaign Game
play of their respective scenarios, he may assist them by firing across the
roster. A man always enters the next scenario with a functioning weapon of
LOs Divider or sending them reinforcements.
the type listed on his card regardless of the state of that weapon at the end
of the previous scenario or any acquisition of a different weapon during a
41.91 Whenever a player is defeated, his forces are removed from the
previous scenario. Any AFy and/or IG called for in a scenario is con-
game. However, the victorious player may continue to play by himself if
sidered an auxiliary force appearing from outside the Campaign Game
the Time Limit in that scenario has not yet been reached. The victorious
roster. Such forces are not recorded on the roster nor manned from among
player continues to draw cards from his own Draw Pile and play and
the men on that roster. A man who survives a scenario with a wound is not
discard cards from his hand during his turn as before except that now only
eligible for use in the next three scenarios but remains on the roster for use
the opposing player(s) from the different game(s) may fire on him and he
thereafter. Write *Wound' in the KlA column and the letter of the next
will be the only player drawing from his Draw pile. However, such players
scenario which he is eligible to participate in.
cannot discard Terrain or Wire (or place Smoke) on his opponent's groups
due to 41.6.
42.4l REPLACEMEN7S: Whenever a man is killed, a check mark is placed
in his KlA column. That man is unavailable for future use until a scenario
41.92 What an unopposed player should do to help his teammate(s) is
Force listing of him cannot be satisfied by substitution of a like-armed man
dependent on many variables such as the relative time remaining in his and
adjacent games, the amount of urgency for assistance for a neighboring
from the roster. At that point, the man must be recreated as a replacement.
Erase the check mark in the KlA column. place one in the *Replacement**
player, current card hand, number of pinned troops, the LOs Divider card,
column, and subtract one Campaign Came Victory Point from your score.
present group arrangement and terrain, etc. However, because a player can
The replacement's initial rank is always Private and his Morale and Panic
send only one reinforcing group into an adjacent game he must strongly
Defense values are as depicted on his card, but his initial KlA value is
consider whether it is worthwhile to take the time to increase the size of that
always a **7* (*6** if armed with a flamethrower). The "*KIA** value must
group through Lateral Group Transfer or Individual Transfer before send-
be so noted with a ""KIA 7*" chit next to his card when in play and by writing
ing those reinforcements.
a **7* in the KlA column. His new rank of PyT must also be recorded in
41.93 The Team Game continues until the Time Limit has been reached in
the "Rank* colurmn.
the last ongoing game between two opponents. Should the Timne Limit
42.42 ROUT: Place a check mark in the ROUT column of a man who
expire first in any of the other games, that player(s) is unable to assist his
routs safely from the game. At the conculsion of the scenario any man
allied player(s) in any way and play in that game section ceases.
which has left that scenario as a result of Rout (6.53lj has either his
MORALE or PANIC Defense value lowered by I (to a minimum of O). The
owner may decide which value to decrease, but may never have a PANiC
value which is < the MORALE value. The new defense value is entered
on the Roster for that man in his MORALE or PANIC column and is sub-
42. CAMPAIGN GAME-
ject to change again depending on how the man does in future scenarios.
42.1 By keeping records of the fate of individual men from one game to the
Should his defense values be reduced to O for both Panic and Morale, the
next an interesting study can be made of the long range effects of combat
man is considered KiA instead. A man removed due to Rout earns a slash
experience on a squad and its fighting capability. To engage in a Campaign
mark in the SURVIVAL column, and loses all accumulated ELAN points
Game, merely select a given number of scenarios to be played and the order
earned to date. After all these alterations to the roster have been made.
in which they are to be played. These scenarios may be of the DYO type;
erase the check mark in the Rout column.
but they and the number of such games which will compose the series
42.43 ELAN: A man may improve his Morale and/or Panic Defense
should be designated prior to the start of a Campaign Game. The
values by gaining Elan points during the course of play. Elan points are
individual scenarios of the Campaign Game may have a wide assortment of
recorded immediately as they occur in the Elan section of the Personality
victory conditions, men, and equipment. However, in each case, the actual
infantrymen of the scenario are taken from a pool of the men that come
Roster. Elan points can accumulate from one scenario to another and are
with the game. These men are listed on a roster kept by the owning player
earned for the following events:
24

--- PAGE 25 [OCR] ---
be encircled and cannot be successfully pursued (see 42.7). Any man who
FLAN POINTS
EVENT REOUIRED
Win Scenario
successfully withdraws earns the two Elan Points awarded for ending a
Wounded or unpinned at end of Scenario (each occurrence)
scenario unpinned.
Uscd Hero Card
42.7 PURSUIT: Instead of ending a scenario as soon as the Victory Condi-
Kill an enemy in CC (fully manned IG counts as 3 enemy) or
tions have been met, or the enemy has given up by attempting withdrawal.
destroy* an AFy with a bazooka/panzerschreck/panzerfaust
Destroy  AFy with Dermo Charge or ATMM kill or break three
or the enemy squad has been broken, the player who has won the scenario
or more men with Demo Charge
has the option of attempting to continue play in hopes of causing further
10
Destroy* AFV in CC without secondary weapons
casualties if the following conditions are met.
Infiltrate an enemy group and fire double firepower into that
42.71 To pursue, the current Draw pile must still have cards remaining.
group resulting in removal or pinning of at least one enemy due
to that fire. Elan points earned egual the nunber of unpinned
42.72 To pursue, the winning side must have an unpinned SL (not ASL) or
men in the defending group prior to resolution of the attack.
Commissar in play who passes a Morale Check by drawing a RNC'(ignor-
I'lmmobilization of AFy is worth two less points; a man cannol gain points for both the
ing the color) < his current MORALE value. The SL is not pinned if he
Immobilization and elimination of the same AFV.]
fails this Morale Check: he merely decides not to pursue and the scenario
42.44 At the end of a scenario in which a man has participated, he may
ends immediately. Pursuit is limited to those opposing groups which have
trade 5 Elan points for a one increment improvement in his MORALE or
not yet withdrawn and to those which have withdrawn but are still at
PANIC Defense values. MORALE and PANIC Defense values can never
Relative Range 5 to any pursuing group after the pursuing player's turn.
be increased higher than 7. In choosing which value to increase, keep in
Any group which has announced its withdrawal as per 42.6 and is at
mind that the PANIC value can never be < the MORALE value. Any
Relative Range 4 (or further) from the closest enemy group at the start of its
Elan points exceeding 5 must be carried over for use after a future scenario in
own turn is immediately removed from play.
which the man takes part. Finally, place a slash mark in his PROMOTION
42.73 Pursuit continues until the present Draw pile is exhausted, or all
column whenever he has improved his MORALE or PANIC Defense
enemy groups have successfully withdrawn from play.
value. In a Team Game, such purchases of Defense value improvements
cannot be made until after the end of all scenarios played within that Team
42.74 Once a scenario is won, it counts as a win for that player regardless
Game. However, in a Team Game, a man may earn Elan points (or lose
of what transpires during the course of the pursuit. However, Elan Points
them by routing) by being unpinned at the end of both his own scenario at
and Panic penalties continue to accumulate during the Pursuit and are not
the point he wins that scenario and any scenario he is transferred into in a
awarded until the scenario ends.
Team Game.
42.8 VICTOR Y CONDITIONS: The winner of the Campaign Game is
42.45 SURVIVAL. Record a slash ( in the Survival column of every man
that side having the most Campaign Game Victory Points. Campaign
which participates in a scenario without being killed including those who
Game Victory Points are awarded as follows:
have routed away safely. After a replacement has accrued 5 slash marks in
VICTORY POINTS: EVENT REOUIRED:
the Survival column,his KlA value changes from 7 to 8, (or from 6 to 7 in
Won Scenano
thecaseof a man armed with a Flamethrower) and should be so noted in the
-3 + -X
Lost Infantry Gun
-5+-X
KlA* value column of the roster and the slash marks erased from the
Lost AF
-1
Survival column. KIA values can never be increased higher than 8 (or 7 for a
Per KIA (including Commander Killed losses of AFV or IG
Reguired Transfer of SL, AsL, or Comrmissar
man armed with a flamethrower), and apply only to the Personnel card's
normal side. KlA values are always one higher on the Pinned side.
X  Number of Victory Points equal to boxed Effect Number of AFV or IG
42.46 PROMOTION: A man is eligible for promotion whenever the sum
42.9 PERSONAL CAMPAIGN: Players may wish to enliven their Cam-
of the slash marks in his SUR VIVAL and PROMOTION columns equals
paigns by using one of the blank Personnel cards to represent themselves.
lO or more. Erase all slash marks in the SURVIVAL and PROMOTION
Fill in one of the Rifle or Machine Pistol blank Personnel cards with your
columns of the man's Personality Roster and promote the man to the next
name. Your initial rank on the roster will be Private and your
higher rank. Commissars are not eligible for promotion, nor are they con-
Morale/Panic values will be 2/3 if German, 2/4 if American. or 3/4 if
sidered equivalent to or > any military rank. A SSG acting as a SL
Russian. Your normal KlA defense will be 8. You will be subject to normal
increases the player's nationality hand capacity by one card as long as he
Panic, Elan, Promotion, and Survival rules. However, you will appear
remains in play and unpinned. Rule 15.2 remains in effect; the only dif-
automatically in every scenario as an extra man (who cannot be replaced by
ference is that the nationality limit on the number of cards which make up a
a similarly armed man) in addition to the specified forces of that scenario
player's hand is one greater to start with, and thus when the SSG SL
so it will behoove you to improve your namesake's abilities for purposes of
becomes pinned or removed, that limit is reduced to two less than that
winning the Campaign as well as the vicarious joy of surviving yet another
nationality's increased hand capacity.
fire fight in absentia. If killed, you must come back at a cost of one Cam-
paign Game Victory Point as a green replacement with a KIA value of 7 and
42.47 -RANK: Rank equivalents of the various nationalities are as follows:
the same Defense values you started the Campaign with. If wounded, you
RUSSIAN:
ABBREVIATION:
AMERICAN:
GERMAN:
have the option of coming back as a green replacement which eliminates the
SSG
Staff Sergeant
Starshi Serzhart
Feldwebel
Wounded man from further consideration, or playing the next three
SGT
Sergeant
Serzhart
Unterfeldwebel
scenarios without your namesake (and the corresponding extra man).
JRSGT
Mladshi Serzhart
CPL
Corporal
Yefreytor
Unteroffizier
ISAMPLE CAMPAIGN GAME: Although the most interesting Campaign Games will be those you
PFC
Private First Class
Gefreiter
design yourself using rule section 43, the following suggested Campaign Game format is provided as
Private
Ryadovoi
Obersoldat
PVT
a ready made base from which to experience this unique gameexperience, Players who like statistical
analyses of games and who are not bothered by the paperwork problems associated with record
keeping are urged to try a Campaign Game. Only by play of scenarios within the context of an
42.5 TRANSFER: A player who finds himself with no man on his roster
overall format wherein individual scenario victory conditions are not the sole factors to be con-
capable of being a SL may pick one at random from the previously
sidered, does one begin to experience the difficulty of the life and death decisions made on the bat.
tlefield, Knowing when to admit defeat and save your force to fight another day becomes more im-
eliminated SL cards which are not available for replacement, and return
portant than attaining individual wins. More importantly, one gains an appreciation of the value of
him to the roster. The man is not penalized as a replacement by having his
veteran troopers within the framework of a sguad when he considers the alternative of going into his
KlA value lowered, but he does count as a Transfer which costs seven
next action with green replacements. It makes for a highly rewarding and unique gaming experience,
which due to the short playing time of UP FRONT, is quite playable in the course of a few evening's
Victory Points (see 42.8. A Russian player in need of a SL must shuffle the
play.1
Commissar card amongst the SL, cards before randomly drawing one. The
same process holds true for transfer of an ASL, except that SL's are not
Our sample Campaign Game consists of playing Scenarios A, B, D, E,
eligible. Note that players are under no obligation to have an ASL and may
F, G, H, C, & L in that order. If the next scenario to be played is not a
chance play without one.
Meeting Engagement, the player with the most Victory Points at the con-
clusion of the last played scenario is the attacking force. Should the two
players be tied in Victory Points, the player who won the last scenario, is
42.6 WITHDRAWAL: Unlike the basic game, in the Campaign Game a
the attacking force.
player has the option of accepting the better part of valor and leaving the
field (and the scenario) to the enemy so as to save his force from further
punishment and preserve their fighting strength for future scenarios in
which the odds might be more in their favor. He may withdraw a group at
range chit O (or less) from play if that group is capable of normal movement
43. DESIGN YOUR OWN-
by playing a red Movement card in the retreat mode on that group. The
mere act of Retrograde behind range chit O does not by itself qualify as a
You can "*Design Your Own'' scenarios for UP FRONT in several different ways. Three easy
withdrawal attempt. The player must state that he is attempting to
mcthods arerecommended here. Ail use a tabulation ofthe Point Values printed on the front of each
Personnel card to accommodate a purchase of forces equal to or less than a given number of DYO
withdraw the group, and in so doing he concedes victory in that scenario.
points. In addition, special capabilities such as Snipers, Elite forces, and certain secondary weapons
The group may never return. To successfully withdraw, the group cannot
can be purchased to augment a player's forces.J
25

--- PAGE 26 [OCR] ---
anything other than a Cower card. Note that a player may also purchase
43.1 PLA Y BALANCE: In this version of DYO,players select a scenario
""insurance**for his Sniper capability in the form of a second Sniper which
from the 12 provided (or others they may have designed themselves) and
enables him to continue using Sniper cards until he has suffered two
pick the side they wish to play. If both players want the same side, each
successful Sniper Checks. Sniper capability costs 35 points. Double Sniper
secretly records the number of DYO points he is willing to give his oppo-
capability costs an additional 15 points.
nent to allow him to play his preferred side. The player who has written the
highest number of points gets to play his preferred side, but the other player
43.7 SECONDARY WEAPONS:In addition to purchase of Personnel
may use the DYO points bid by his opponent to augment his force by pur-
cards, the following special Secondary Weapons may be purchased in chit
chase of additional forces using those DYO points.
form to be carried by any designated infantryman in addition to his
43.2 REPLA Y: In this version of DYO one player selects a scenario to be
principal weapon.
played from those provided in the game, and the other player chooses his
ATMM: 7
AVAILABLE:1944
side. The year of the scenario is determined by drawing a RPN and con-
Panzerfaust: 25
AVAILABLE:7/43
sulting the TIME FRAME Table. Only those Personnel cards available
Demolition Charge: 50
within that time frame may be purchased for that scenario. All Personnel
Radio, Fire Strength 5: German 42., U.S. 50, Russian 22
cards without **AVAILABLE** information printed on the reverse of their
Radio, Fire Strength 6: German 84, U.S. 100, Russian 44
cards may be used in any scenario. Each player then secretly selects his
Radio, Fire Strength 7: German 126, U.S. 150, Russian 66
force from among the Personality cards provided in the game using a
number of DYO points not to exceed the number printed in red on the
TIME FRAME TABLE
Scenario card for their respective side of the scenario being played. DYO
RPN*
purchases must include a maximum and minimum of one SL and one ASL
1941b
1942a
1942b
1943a
1941a
1944a
1944b
1945a
YEAR
(a Commissar may be substituted for either). Players should agree
1943b
beforehand whether or not to exclude the use of Infantry Guns and/or
*If vs U.S. use column 6 of the RPN card; if vs Russian use column 9 of the RPN card.
AFV's in scenarios not originally using them. All other conditions of the
a = January through June; b  July through December
scenario remain unchanged, although Sniper capacity can be bought (or
strengthened) by a player without it.
VICTORY CONDITION TABLE
43.3 BIDS: In a Bid DYO, a scenario including the defensive force is
RPN* SITUATION
randomly constructed, and then both players secretly bid for theright to at-
The attacking player must have twice as many Victory Points as the defend-
tack it with a force of their own design.
ing player at the end of the scenario. Territorial Victory Points are awarded
only by multiplying the number of unpinned Personality cards in each group
43.31 Determine the nationalities to be played and their roles by drawing a
occupying Buildings terrain at the end of the scenario by its range chit.
RPN and consulting the TACTICAL POSITION Table.
Casualty Victory Points are awarded normally. The Pillbox, Marsh, and
Stream cards are treated as Cower cards. Remove the first four Woods
43.32 Determine the year the scenario takes place by drawing a RPN and
cards.
consulting the TIME FRAME Table.
The attacking player must have twice as many Victory Points as thedefend,
43.33 Determine the Victory Conditions for the scenario by drawing a
ing player at the end of the scenario. The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower
RPN and consulting the VICTORY CONDITION Table, or by mutual
card.. Remove the first four Buildings cards.
agreement.
The player with the most Victory Points at the end of the scenario is the
winner. The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower card. Remove the first four
43.34 Determine the Time Limit for the scenario by drawing a RNC and
Buildings cards.
noting the color. Ail O or black RNC's are three deck time limits: all red
RNC's of 1-6 are four deck time limits.
The player with the most Victory Points at the end of the scenario is the
winner. However, aggressive action.Victory Points are awarded only to
43.35 Both players determine the composition of the defending force by
those Personnel cards occupying Buildings terrain. Victory Points for
mutually selecting the defending Personality cards to be used, taking into
casualties are awarded normally. The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower
consideration the Victory Conditions, Time Limit, Deck Composition.
card. Remove the first four Woods cards.
and Cower Card allotments already determined.
The attacking player wins by eliminating all Personality cards in the Pillbox
or if the Pillbox becomes vacant. The defending player wins by avoiding the
43.36 Both players now secretly record the minimum attacking force they
attacker's Victory Conditions. The defending player receives the Pillbox
feel is necessary to accomplish the Victory Conditions and total the DYO
card prior to setup. Remove the first Stream card and the first four Buildings
point expenditures they have made to arrive at an overall point cost for
cards..
their force. Players simultaneously reveal the composition and point value
The first player to have four unpinned Personality cards in one or morenon-
of their attack force. The player with the least expensive attack force
infiltrated groups with a *4"' range chit in terrain which will reduce the Fire
becomes the attacking player with the force he has selected. The remaining
Strength of any..attack against them is the winner, If neither player
player receives the defending forces selected in 43.35. Point value ties are
accomplishes this by the time limit, the defending playet wins. The Pillbox
resolved with a RNC draw. The game now begins normally per rule section
card is treated as a Cower card. Remove the first four. Buildings cards.
3, and with the attacking player always playing first.
The attacker wins if he can bring at least half of his force unpinned to
Relative Range 5 of any defending group and in terrain which will reduce the
43.4 REINFORCEMENTS: Players wishing to purchase reinforcements
Fire Strength of any attack against them. The defender wins by avoiding the
may do so at reduced cost, determined by the earliest possible arrival time
attacker's Victory Conditions. The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower card.
of the units into the scenario. To determine the adjusted point value of rein-
Remove the first three Buildings cards.
forcements, total the DYO point values of all purchased reinforcements
The attacker wins by eliminating more than half of the defender's force
which are eligible to enter at the end of each deck and multiply that sum by
before his own squad is broken. Treat the Pillbox. card as a Cower.card.
the proper percentage to determine the adjusted Point value of those rein-
Remove the first five Building cards.
forcements as a group (all fractions rounded up). Reinforcements are dis-
*Use column 8 of the RPN card.
counted in point value as follows:
Arrival After One Deck x .8
UNIT TYPETABLE
1941b
1942a
1942b
1943a
1941a
Arrival After Two Decks X .5
1944a
1945a
1944b
YEAR
1943b
Arrival After Three Decks X .2
1-2
14
1-3
1-5
German S:
.1-8
1-7..
1-7
3-7
2-7
1-9
5-8
6-9
4.8
43.41 The total number of Reinforcements can never exceed half the
9-0
8-0
8-0
8-0
8-0
9-0
9-0
number of Personality cards in the starting force even if they arrive at two
1-4
1-4
1-3
1-3
1-2
1-3
Russian S:
different times.
5-9
5-0
48
47
-3-7
2-7.
1-6
1-5
9-0
8-0
0-8
8-0
60
7-0
43.42 If an AFV enters as a Reinforcement, it must arrive at range chit O.
1-5
14
1-3
1-2
U.S.
1-6
6-9
4-8
589
3-8
2-7
7-0
43.5 TROOP TYPES: Players may purchase a troop type other than
06
8-0
06
*Lineby increasing their total DYO point expenditures by 15%o for Elite
forces, or decreasing their total DYO point expenditures by 15%o for
Use o RPN: S = Second Line.L  Line, E  Elite
Second Line troops. Partisans may be purchased by the Russian player at a
TACTICAL POSITION TABLE
discount of 5%.
RPN
Attacker vs Defender
Russian vs German
43.6 SNIPERS: Minefield, and Pillbox cards are always treated as Cower
German ys Russian
cards unless allocated to the defending player at the outset by the scenario
American vs German
in play or the Victory Condition Table. Snipers are always allocated to the
German vs American
defending player. The attacking player in a DYO scenario may purchase
*Use column 4 of the RPN card
use of the Sniper cards, but he may never use Minefield or Pillbox cards as
26

--- PAGE 27 [OCR] ---
AMERICAN CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER
KIA
PANIC
ROUT
RANK
ELAN
REPLACED
MORALE
NAME/WEAPON
SURVIVALPROMOTION
1. Burnett/MP
2. Moores/MP
3.Fox/BAR
4.McElroy/R
5. Frattali/R
6. Smith/R
7.Anderson/R
8. Burke/R
9. Myers/R
10.Watson/R
I1.Greenwood/R
12.Edwards/R
13.Spoulos/BAZ
14.Towle/BAZ
15. Nixon/MMG
16.Moras/FT
17..Ransom/CAR
18.Allen/CAR
19.MacGowan/BAR
20. Hull/R
21. Maly/MP
22. Cantatore/MP
23.Coates/MP
24.Crain/MP
25.Coggins/MP
26.Degi/MP
27.Martin/MP
28.Shelley/MTR
Personal/
VICTORY POINTS:
NOTES:
I. Improves if Survival + Promotion = io
6. Reduce MORALE or PANIC by one; enter /.in Survival column
2. Cannot be > 8; if wounded miss 3 games: erase all other columns if checked
7. Five Points required for improvement of one in MORALE or PANIC
3. Replace KIA check mark with 7:/ = 1 VP: T/ = 7 VP
8. Enter / if in play at game end; five Survivals improves KIA 7 back to 8
4. Cannot be > 7 or PANIC: if improved enter / in Promotion column
9. Enter / if in play at game end; enter / whenever man improves rating
S. Cannot be > 7 or < MORALE: if O treat as KlA; if improved enter / in Promotion column
FREOUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS&ANSWERS
unless there are two Wire cards on it. Similarly, an
6 When a scenario states that a certain type of
on one of the involved groups in the forward/
1o.2 Can you play a Rally card on a group with no
occupied Hill's + I modifier cannot be used to
reverse mode before completing the transfer by
card must be removed from the deck when dis-
pinned men in order to get it out of your hand?
negate the defender's TEM for purpose of ful-
placement of a Terrain card?
ctded unused or as a RNC/RPC draw, is it con-
A. No!
filling Victory Conditions.
A. No.
Cdered a ""scenario defined Cower card*"?
16.4 Do you really mean that no VPs are awarded
A Yes, in other words,a Buildings card can never
17.1 & 17.7 Can you play a Flank card sideways
17.8 Can a man being transferred between sta-
for moving men at the end of a Scenario even if
beplaced during Prepare For Play in Scenario A.
merely to allow you to change terrain or ford a
tionary groups be affected by a red To Hit RNC
they are at range chit 5?
stream without gaining either of those benefits?
LMEJP
3& 14.5 During a multi-card discard, can a
A. Yes, that's the risk you take when waiting for
A. Yes
A. Yes, as per 25.31. the transferred man is
payer observe the results of one discard before
the relative artificial safety of the end of the deck
effected the same as the defending target group.
deciding where and7or if to discard another?
to move. The rule was created especially to dis-
17.613 Are the panic values reduced for purposes
AS No
of rout resolution?
courage such unrealistic tactics.
I7.g Maya manmakean Individual Transferinto
A. No. The Panicvalueisdecreased: not the Rout
or form a group that has a Movement card in play
132 Can a group with pinned men reject terrain?
16.42 Would a Wire card on top of a Wall card
formula on the back of each man's card.
from a previous turn?
AYes
negate that group for Victory Conditions fulfill-
A, Yes: "and may not move from ihar range chit
ment if an opposing group exists which is not
17.62 If an encircled group retreats so that both
732 Car a player with a multi-card discard
until a turn after the transfer chit is removed,*!
directly opposite it?
the encircling groups are in front of it, but still
apability, discard one terrain card on a group,
closer than RR 1 is the encirciement broken?
A. No, even if no opposing group were directly
ve it rejected, and still discard another terrain
17.8 Can men in the process of individual transfer
A. Yes.
opposite it to be affected by the TEM; the wall catd
card on the same group in the same turn? Even if
fire?
is not reduced to total ineffectiveness and there
the two were discarded simultaneously?
17.7 When making a Lateral Group Transfer can
A, Yes, and as part of either group, but by in
fore can be used to fulfill Victory Conditions -
A. No. No.
another Movement card be subsequently played
cluding them in an attack the Fire Strength of that
27

--- PAGE 28 [OCR] ---
GERMAN CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER
ELAN
ROUT
MORALE
REPLACED
SURVIYALPROMOTION
RANK
#'NAME/WEAPON
KIA
1. Diettinger/MP
2. Hessel/MP
3. Schussel/LMG
4. Schumacher/R
5. Shultz/R
6. Bernhoff/R
7. Beck/R
8. Wollak/R
9. Streich/R
10.Wolff/R
11. Gerhart/PSK
12. Griess/LMG
13. Wittenberg/MMG
14. Wagner/FT
15. Volke/AR
16. Schaeffer/ATR
17.Hauptmann/MP
18.Posner/MP
19. Schlaffer/AR
20.Frantz/PSK
21. Hamblen/MP
22. Loth/MP
23. Stahler/MP
24. Steiner/MP
25. Bauer/MTR
26. Kubler/AR
27.Klapp/AR
Personal/
19.15 If a fully-crewed LMG is using its
A. Yes as per normal application of 20.53.
attack must be halved as Moving Fire even though
ordnance attack?
bracketed FP to fire from a Stream, does it mal-
the remainder (and perhaps the majority of the fir-
A. No
21.2 How can the Demolition Charge be used
ing group) was not moving. However, only those
funiction on a red 5 RNC?
with a strength of 8 against an AFV?
28.8 Once a man has infiltrated vs an AFV, does
men engaged in the transfer would be subject to
A. Yes.
A. It cannot. A Demo Charge can be used vs
he have to play a Movement card or undergo a
halving of Firepower for their Bolt Action rifles,
19.3 &20.56 Can morethan onerepairattempt be
armored targets only in CC and only as a + 4 CC
Morale Check in order to attack that AFV?
and the player always has the option of attacking
made per group per turn or can more than one
DRM (28.81).
A, No. Either a Morale Check or Movement card
without the transferring men so as to avoid the
man drop his infiltrator status per group per turn?
was required for the infiltration attempt, but once
Moving Fire penalty.
21.3 Do Smoke or Wire cards modify a Demo
A, No; ""sole action'".
infiltrated,the CCattack occurs immediately with
Charge attack?
20.2 May a player elect to cancel remaining de-
19.13 & 19.14 These rules seem contradictory on
no further requirements.
A. Only those on the defender's group--not the
the malfunction of a weapon of a designated As-
signated infiltration attempts upon seeing the
attackers.
28.9 What effect does being Hull Down have on
sistant crewmen, which is correct?
results of earlier ones?
an Infantry Gun being fired on by'non-ordnance
A. No-that's why they have to be pre-
A. Both are. 19.14 refers to already malfunc-
23.8 Can a pillbox be encircled?
weapons?
designated to begin with.
tioned weapons and those of pinned men and takes
A. Yes, but 23.8 overrides the effects of 17.612:
A. None, other than the normal application of
precedence over 19.13 when either of those condi-
i.e. Flanking Fire vs a pillbox is obtainable only by
20.8 Is the last played terrain card of an in-
the terrain card's TEM.
tions exist, In other words, the weapon of a de
23.7.
filtrated group which has been eliminated while in
Scenario I has ended with the German having
signated assistant crewman is safe from malfunc-
the act of a double move subject to capture?
24.33 How does an AFV exit a minefield?
more Victory Points but not having at least half
tion unless he is pinned or that weapon has already
A. No-because it is occupying Open Ground.
A. Minefield attacks vs an AFy are treated
his force at range chit S; did the German win?
malfunctioned.
However,that Open Ground could be captured by
exactly the same as if they were against an infantry
A, No: "The Partisan wins by avoiding the
claiming the first Movement card and flipping it
19.1s Does a non-fully crewed LMG (or a cap-
group except that it attacks with a base anti-armor
German Victory Conditions.**
tured weapony automatically malfunction if firing
over.
strength of 1.
from a group containing only regular rifles on a
20.8 When a groupis eliminated in CCand its ter-
28.46 Does this flank shot apply to non-ordnance
red 6 RNC?
rain captured, is the capturing group also entitled
shots when an AFV plays a Sideways movement
A. No. The LMG or captured weapon would
to a change of range or Group 1D chits?
card?
automatically malfunction on a red S RNC: but
A. No
A. No
should a red 6 RNC be drawn, the question of
21.2 Does aninfiltrator who setsoff a Demolition
28.61. Can a Concealed card be played to aid the
which weapon may malfunction is resolved
Charge lose his infiltration status?
defense of an AFV or its crew against a non-
normally.

--- PAGE 29 [OCR] ---
RUSSIAN CAMPAIGN GAME ROSTER
RANK
" NAMEWEAPON
KIA
REPLACED
MORALE
PANIC
ROUT
ELAN
SURVIVALLPROMOTION
1. Rostov/R.
2. Burlak/LMG
3. Petrovsky/R
4. Yastreboft/R
5.Storchillo/R
6. Soloviev/R
7. Kristov/R
8. Chernenko/R
9. Nosenko/R
10.Kvasnikov/R
11. Sokoloff/R
12. Vakuta/R
13. Zaharoff/R
14. Zayakov/R
15.Uihailoft/R
16.Semenov/MMG
17.Kirilenko/FT
18.Mihailoft/ATR
19.Dottski/MP
20. Knezevich/MP
21. Aliev/MP
22.Igorski/MP
23.Podgorny/MP
24. Baibakov/MP
25.Korniev/MP
26. Zorin/MP
27.Symsilov/MTR
28.-Borisoft/LMG
Personal/
VICTORY POINTS:
NOTES:
I. Improves if Survival + Promotion.= io
2. Cannot be > 8; if wounded miss 3 games; erase all other columns if checked
3. Replace KIA check mark with 7:/ = 1VP:T/ =7VP
4. Cannot be > 7 or PANIC; if improved enter / in Promotion column
5. Cannot be > 7 or c MORALE; if O treat as KIA; if improved enter / in Promotion column
6. Reduce MORALE or PANIC by one; enter / in Survival column
7. Five Points required for improvement of one in MORALE or PANIC
8. Enter / if in play at game end; five Survivals improves KIA 7 back to 8
9. Enter / if in play at game end; enter / whenever man improves rating
QUESTIONS
SECOND EDITION
Questions on the rules of play of UP FRONT'will be answered only when
This is the second edition of UP FRONT. All rules, cards, and counters found
presented in a Yes/No format and accompanied by a self-addressed return envelope
herein take precedence over all previous components of the game.
bearing sufficient return postage. Questions on tactics, history, or design will not be
answered outside the pages of our bi-monthly gaming magazine, THE GENERAL.
Players wishing to learn more about UP FRONT should order the Vol. 21, No. 1 issue
of THE GENERAL which featured articles of strategy, contests, design comments.
and a discussion of the new British and Japanese cards for the game.
Scenario L Continued from Page 35
VICTORY CONDITIONS: The attacking player wins immediately if he has four unpinned Personality
MORE UP FRONT
cards in one or more uninfiltrated groups at range chit 5 in terrain which will reduce the Fire
Players who enjoy UP FRONT won't want to miss the companion game in the
Strength of any attack against them. The defender wins by avoiding the attacker's Victory Condi-
series: BANZAl. BANZAI is an expansion set for UP FRONT which provides new
tions.
rules, counters, and cards for the Japanese and British.For current prices of BANZAl
and/or THE GENERAL reguest a current Parts List.
DY0:ATTACKER:.516,DEFENDER:317
29

--- PAGE 30 [OCR] ---
Figure 2
GERMAN RIFLE
AMERICAN PARA.
Figure 3
Figure 1
AMERICANRIFLECO.（44-"45)
CO. ("44-*45)
COMPANY
("39-"43)
HQ
1X7.92mm
1x50mm
AIFLE
RifLe
ATR
RIFLE
RIFLE
RIFLE
RIFLE
Mariar
HQ
HQ
20.30 Ca. LMG
RIFLE
RIFLE
AIFLE
1x8azooka
BAZ
HMG
HMG
MMG
1x.50 Cal.
12 Menj
112 Menl
HMG
1X60mm
TXBAR
100MI Rde
Mortar
TXBAR
BAZ
2X 30 Cal.
HQ
1X1903 Spinglhed
Rie oF MI RRe
Carbine or
1X.30 cal.
a Cal. Machine
IXBAZ
1X50mm
LMG
Pistol
Mortar
1944-45 Variation
1945 Variation
1944-45 Variation
110 Men)
18 Men)
[10 Men]
110 Menj
2x9mm Machine
2xSoa Machine
Pisind
112 Meni
Pestol
6XG98 RAe
1X7.92mm LMG
112 Mon!
1XBAR
112 Menj
7XG98 Ritie
9XM1 Bine
2X45 CalMachie Pisbol
10XMIP
2x 30 Cal. Carbine
2XBAR
TXBAR
1.AS CaLMacNne Pis
45 Cal. Machin Pisid
1X.30 Cal Carbine
6XM1 Rile
T,O&E
HISTORICALNOTES AND TABLES OF ORGANIZATION
Although most of the men occupying a squad had bolt-action rifles, the
AMERICAN: Like most armies in WW II, the American organization
squad had a fair amount of firepower supplied by their excellent light
followed the triangle concept all the way down to the squad level. Figure 1
machine gun. The MG 34 which first came into servicein early 1939, was an
shows a ""typical** Rifle company that saw action on the Western Front
extremely versatile weapon and the first machine gun to be designed as a
from 1944 to 1945. As can be seen, the American troops were well armed.
multi-purpose weapon. It could be used with a bipod as a light machine
With the Mi semi-automatic rifle, the basic infantryman could deliver a
gun, on a tripod mounting as a medium or heavy machine gun with
larger volume of accurate firepower than any other rifle on the battlefield.
telescopic sights, or even with a special mounting for anti-aircraft defense.
As also can be seen, the platoon relied heavily on the Browning Automatic
The MG 42 which replaced the MG 34 was an even better gun and gave the
Rifle (BAR) for support. But in reality the BAR was too light for an
German infantryman the best machine gun of WWIl.
adequate machine gun base and too heavy for a rifle. This caused American
squads and platoons to rely heavily on other support elements for addi-
At the beginning of 1944 it was realized that the constant drain on man-
tional firepower.Although the official organization of the company varied
power meant that many of the Infantry Divisions were hopelessly
little,the Americans had a tendency to acquire extra equipment. This could
understrength and a new organization was established (see figure 4). The
occur at any level from additional submachine guns or machine guns to
major change here came in reducing the number of sguads per rifle platoon
tanks and artillery. However, one interesting official change did occur in
from four to three and theomission of a platoon as weli. In some cases, the
1945 which gave the squad a marked increase in firepower by adding an
number of men per squad was also reduced from ten to nine, though this
additional BAR to the twelve man squad.
was not uniformly adopted. By 1944 the effectiveness of the 5Omm mortar
The American standard Parachute Company (see figure 2) looked very
was felt to be minimal, and it was officially replaced at the piatoon level by
similar to the infantry company except for the lack of a Heavy Weapons
a shortened version of the 8lrnm mortar. However, as with.all "'official"
platoon. To help make up for this a 6Omm mortar section was added to
changes,paper strengths and T,O,&E's werenot universally implemented
each platoon and additional support weapons attached to the HQs which
in the field where the hard pressed German Army had to make use of
could be distributed to the squad as the need presented itself. Note that
everything it had.
although on paper theparachute squad was mainly to beequipped with Ml
By September, 1944 the constant drain of manpower was taking a heavy
Rifles,most squads substituted .45 calibre Thompson submachineguns for
toll on Germany, and a completely new type of division was formed from
some of the rifles as the war progressed. In addition to the weapons shown,
low-grade formations or remnants of former infantry units. The
each paratrooper jumped with a M1911 .45 cal automatic pistol.
Volksgrenadier Division was made up of virtually untrained boys and old
men. They were organized as an infantry division with a reduction in per-
GERMAN: Except for the reorganization of the infantry platoon from
sonnel but an increase in small automatic weapons, particularly sub.
three to four squads after the Polish Campaign in 1939, the German com-
machine guns (see figure S).
pany organization remained unchanged until Fall of 1943 (see Figure 3).
Figure 6
TGERMAN RIFLE CO
Figure 5
GERMAN VOLKS
GERMAN SS CO
Figure 4
(44-45)
PANZERGRENADIER
GRENADIER CO.
HO
(MOTORIZED)
HQ
HQ
('44-"45)
(44-45)
岗岗岗
区区区
SUBMACHINE
SUBMACHINE
RIFLE
GUN
GUN
ISAMEI
4xPamerschneck
HQ
HQ
HMG
HMG
2X7.92mm LMG
HQ
102.62mm
HQ
1X7.62M LMG
HMG
SMG
HQ
RIFLE
19 Meng
09 Men
19 Men!
19 Menj
107.9200 HMG
1X7.920 HMG
Ixsimn Morbar
(Same)
S19mg Machine
909mM
2x9mm Maching
Michie Psiol
1944-45 Variation
1X7.92mm LMG
110 Men!
137.92mm LMG
XG98 RN
6XG98 Ri
2x9nin Machin
1944-45 Variation
区区
Pisial
197 920m LMG
7AG98 R
2x9mmMachin
Pisil
19 Menl
2xgam Mace
LxPaniarschreck
237.920MLMG
2x9mmMchin
Postol
ixPanzerschreck
3XG98R
1X7.92mm LMG
3XSIGAA AGSAUN
ZX7.92mMLMG
5XG98 Rlle
6XC98 BA
30

--- PAGE 31 [OCR] ---
RUSSIAN RIFLE CO
Figure 8
RUSSIAN RIFLE CO.
Figure 7
RUSSIAN RIFLE CO.
Figure 9
(July 1941)
(April 1941)
(December 1941)
HQ
HQ
HQ
MIFLE
RIFLE
RIFLE
RIFLE
AIFLE
BIFLE
MG
RIFLE
RIFLE
AIFLE
HQ
HMG
HMG
1x7.62mm
HQ
HQ
1x50mm Morla
HMG
区区
(12 Men)
1XSVT 1940 Rile 0
7.62mm Machine
(Same)
112 Manl
1X50mm
112 Mo)
112Meni
1XSVT 1940 Rile r 1
1XSVT 1940 Bde F
1XSVT 1940R 0F
Moriar
1X7.62mm LMG
7.62mm Machine
T.62me Machine
7.52mmi Machim Pislol
10X1891/30 R
Pistol
1X7.62mm LMG
1X7.62mmLMG
10X1891/30A
11X1891/30 ANe
10X1891/30 R
squads had more than one LMG at a time. In addition, by 1943 the 5Omm
In marked contrast to the Volksgrenadiers were the units of the Waffen
mortars had lost most of their favor among the troops and had fallen into
SS.Organized similarly to the 1944 type infantry units (see figure 6), the SS
disuse.
had slightly stronger components and were always the first units to receive
In late 1944 the final organization change was made which cut the com-
replacements. At squad level this meant an additional LMG which made
the squad a formidable unit indeed. Newer equipment such as the StG44
pany back to a new low by eliminating one squad and reducing the others
Assault Rifle was also issued first to these units. This weapon had the
from nine to seven men each (see figure 12). This mattered little in reality as
the war was almost over and Germany near collapse.
massive firepower of a submachine gun for close assaults, yet could fire
accurately as a semi-automatic rifle at long range. Mainly appearing on the
December of 1941 brought a rather unique company organization to
the Russian Army, the Machine Pistol company. These companies were
Russian front in the summer of 1944, the Americans did encounter units
armed totally with machine pistols and had no support weapons of any
thus equipped during the Ardennes Offensive.
kind (see figure 13). Each Rifle Regiment had one such company but after
1943 many Rifle Regiments disbanded their separate Machine Pistol com-
RUSSIANS: The Russian tendency not to closely adhere to their
panies and formed a Rifle company with machine pistois rather than rifles.
official unit tables of organization was even more pronounced. Unlike
Because the LMG's and HMG's of the latter were retained, the company
most armies, the Russians allowed their front line commanders the right to
became much more effective than the pure Machine Pistol company.
reorganize their Rifle Divisions.This tended to become extremely common
The Russians fielded another infantry formation from September of
late in the war. In addition, it should be noted that it was very seldom that
194l on. These elite troops known as Guards units were organized only
the Rifle Companies ever attained their full strength on the battlefield.
slightly different from the normal rifle units on the company level. Guards
The main Russian infantry weapon was the 1891/30 7.62mm bolt-
units were not created from scratch as was a Rifle Division but from
action rifle.Originally the SVT 1940 semi-automatic rifle was to replace it,
existing units which had distinguished themselves in combat. Generally.
but because of numerous problems only a select few NCO's received them.
there were more machine pistols, heavy machine guns and anti-tank rifles
By 1943, all officers had received machine pistols and the SVT 1940 fell
distributed to justify the ""Guards*" label. In addition, each Guards Rifle
almost completely from use.
Regiment had two Machine Pistol companies instead of the one found in a
The company organization at the outbreak was very similar to that of
normal Rifle Regiment.
Germany (see figure 7). In July of 194l a new organization was issued
TACTICS: The basis of all infantry tactics lie in one key element com-
reflecting more realistically the true battered condition of the Russian
monly referred to as **fire and movement'. Although this is sometimes
Army after the opening battles of the war (see figure 8). After the summer-
regarded as two distinctly different elements, in application on the battle-
autumn rout of 194l,the company was cut to a minimumlosing most of its
field they cannot be separated. The enemy is defeated by fire which
support weapons and reducing the number of squads in a platoon from
disrupts, confuses, and finally displaces him, while movement gains the
four to three (see figure9). In July of 1942 the lost rifle squad was returned,
position to effectively continue the fire and continue the displacement.
but the number of men in each squad fell from 12 to nine (see figure 10). In
Forward movement requires a good base of fire and proper use of the sur-
addition,each company received a platoon of three 5Omm mortars.By the
rounding terrain and the concealment and protection it provides. Once
end of 1942 the Rifle company organization stabilized until late 1944-45
contact with the enemy is made, a unit must advance by short rushes or
(see figure ll). The major change here was in the inclusion of a machine
bounds from cover to cover. The length of the *"bounds** depends on the
gun section and the addition of an extra LMG to two of the four squads. It
type of cover provided by the terrain. As the distance from the enemy
should be noted however that it is extremely doubtful that many Rifle
decreases, the bounds are shortened.
Figure 12
Figure 11
RUSSIAN RIFLE CO.
RUSSIAN RIFLE CO.
RUSSIAN.RIFLE CO.
Figur 10
(Dec.1942-1945)
(July 1942)
(1944-1945)
HQ
HQ
HQ
FLE
RIFLE
NIFLE
BIFLE
RIFLE
RIFLE
RIFLE
HQ
1X7.62HNG
1X7.62mm
HQ
1x50mm Morlar
HMG
1X50mmMortar
 Men!
1X7.62mm Mach PisNd
1X7.52mm LMG
5X1891/30 Rhe
RUSSIAN MACHINE
(Same)
(9 Men)
Figure 13
(9 Men)
137.52mm Machg
1x7.62mm Machinme
137.52mm MWachine
Patol
GUN COMPANY
1X7.62M LM0
2X7.62mm LMG
17.62mm LMG
HQ
6X1891/30R
7X1891/30 AING
7X1891/30 G
(Dec1941-1945)
TYPE
SIZE:
Guards Company Variation
Company
HO
HMG
HMG
Intantry
Hsadquarters
Patoon
penbs
Parachute
Mortar
Team
Heay Weapons
Anti-Tank
1X7.62 HMG
Moborized
Airborne Mortar
10x7.82mn Machine Pisidl
31

--- PAGE 32 [OCR] ---
The American assault doctrine followed this fire and movement tactic
allowed the Germans to employ far better command control. In addition.
basing it largely on the covering fire technique used in the final phases of
the combat training of German troops was second to none. Troops can per-
Ww I. Each 12 man squad would divide into three sections. The first sec-
form in an organized manner on the battlefield only when, in the course of
tion with the two scouts and squad leader would locate the enemy. The
training, they have been forewarned of the kind of disorder they may ex-
squad leader would then evaluate the situation and direct the fire of the
pect to encounter there. Fear is ever present on the battlefield, but it is un-
second section or "fire section*". This group usually consisted of four men
controlled fear that results in ultimate feat. To counter this, both officers
including the squad's major support weapon,the BAR,and would provide
and enlisted men received detailed training in the finer points of basic tac-
the covering fire for the third group, the ""assault section'. The five man
tics. Yet even the best trained troops had to learn many of their lessens on
assault section led by the assistant squad leader would attempt to take the
the battlefield itself. The presence of even one veteran who had experienced
enemy position in a final rush under the protection of the covering fire.
the horrors of battle previously.strengthened the backbone of a squad more
Although this technique employed the proper elements of fire and move-
than any degree of training. The Germans became more flexible in their
ment, it had certain problems associated with dividing the squad into three
specialized groups. All too often the squad leader was unable to play an ac-
The Russians used the same tactical elements, although in their own
tive part as he usually became pinned down with the scouts resulting in a
fashion. Much of the tactical training had to be learned on the battlefield
loss of command control. Partly due to the inadequacy of the BAR as a
from tactical instinct gained from first hand experience. This assumed, of
support weapon, American infantry tended to rely heavily on artillery or
course, that he would live long enough to use it once learned. Squads
armor support for their advances. When faced by the poor quality or
operated almost invariably as one unit, seldom breaking down into small
smaller rear guard German units of 1944-45, the Americans often
components, but on occasion they would break into fire and movement
employed a primitive tactic called **March Fire"' made possible by their
sections. Lacking the sophistication for the more complex maneuvers of
semi-automatic rifles. In general, all the infantry advanced in a thick skir-
the Germans, the Russians applied the simple direct approach. Their lack
mish line with everyone firing at possible enemy positions while heavier
of training necessitated the use of larger formations for concentration of
weapons laid down covering fire. It proved to be effective against light
command. Where other Armies used squads to accomplish a task, the
resistance, but often resulted in heavier casualties.
Russians used whole platoons. This centralization of command resulted in
No Army mastered the tactics of wW II better than the Germans.
inflexibility on the battlefield and simplicity of action. Russian technique
Realizing the need for mobility and flexibility in tactics, the Germans built
in the attack was basically of two types. First, infiltration, similar to the
their fire and movement tactics around the infiltration lessens of WW 1.
German usage, and when that failed or could not be implemented due to
Such technigues emphasized temporarily avoiding the main enemy posi-
lack of initiative, massed headlong attacks. The Russian human wave at-
tions while pushing through the weaker points until the enemy could be hit
tack would start with riflemen advancing in large clusters with a final rush
from the flank or rear. Like the Americans, fire and movement sections
occurring from about 150-250 meters away from the enemy position.
were employed, but with some important differences. The ""command sec-
Without massive artillery support, most of these attacks resulted in the
tion* of the American squad containing the squad leader was not
majority of the attackers being killed, pinned, or routed, but in all cases
exacted a heavy toll in human life:
BRINGING UP THE REAR
DESIGNER'S NOTESFOR UP FRONT
UPFRONTwas designed from the outset with playability uppermost in
associated with not being able to see the enemy most of the time or, often,
mind. Yet, at the same time, the problems associated with infantry combat
even members of one's own sguad. This occurs largely due to everyone's
on the WWil battlefield have been simulated with a great amount of detail.
preoccupation with staying out of sight. No one likes to be shot at and
It is, I'm sure, quite obvious from the outset that we've approached these
exposure for any prolonged period of time on the modern-era battlefield
problems in a unique manner. Although a card game by its very nature con-
generally has a fatal result. In game terms, these elements manifest
tains a high luck element, or shall we say many random events, combat at
themselves in the draw and sequence of play of the Action cards.
this level is nothing if not random. In battle, there is very little order. Fre-
As your side's vicarious squad leader, wanting to move your men for-
quently, events transpire by accident. At first glance, the course of events
ward is not enough. They must be informed of your orders, and just as
may seem to make little or no sense, but this is not to say that all events
important, convinced to overcome their fear sufficiently to enable them to
occur randomly. On the contrary, there are a multitude of sound rules for
abandon the comparative safety of their present position. In game terms,
the conduct of troops under fire. I hope, that during the course of playing
one must simply play a Movement card, but it may take many gameturhis to
the game, you will realize that success will come, more often'than not, to
obtain one. The game, in this case, is simulating that this group needs more
the player who properly applies those rules. Just as a professional gambler
than a little coaxing to overcome their reluctance to fill someone's sights.
will win most (but not all)of his encounters with an occasional card player.
The same is true of even a seemingly less terrifying activity such as defen-
the. veteran UP FRONT player can expect to take the measure of less
sive fire. Post-battle interviews have clearly demonstrated that only about
talented opposition in roughly equal proportion to the chances of success
25% to 30%o of the men involved in a firefight might be expected to even
of his real life veteran counterpart on the battlefield. Remember, however,
fire their weapons-let alone fire them accurately and efficiently. In game
that success is never guaranteed no matter how perfectly one performs his
terms, this real life fact is factored into the Fire cards and weapon
tasks. Lady Luck, or Fate if you prefer, will always be the final judge-
firepower values. Unlike games such as SOUAD LEADER, you cannot
albeit one who usually sides with the better tactician. S. L. A. Marshal said
blast away automatically every turn in which a potential enemy is within
it as well as anyone: ""In battle the unusual is met usually, and the abnormal
range. To initiate fire from a group, a player needs not only a Fire card, but
becomes the normal. Soldiers may act like lions and then like scared hares
a Fire card with the appropriate firepower factors. The mere presence of
within the passage of a few minutes.** UPFRONT portrays these vagaries
comrades who willingly employ their weapons, helps stimulate the others
of combat with a flair for the dramatic and tenseness unrivalled by more
through peer pressure or battlefield psychology to use theirs, but since all
traditional wargames. Within this context, it is our contention that UP
the men may not participate in the attack, the result numbers are factored
FRONT, despite its obvious playability appeal, is a more accurate simula-
down.
tion with much more inherent realism than its larger scale predecessor
despite its many geomorphic mapboards, counters ad infinitum, and sea of
Firepower factors represent more than the strength.of the weapon at
complextables.
various ranges. Just as important as the fire strength (i.e. the rate of fire.
So how does UPFRONT portray these small level actions so well?Most
velocity, etc.) of a weapon is the willingness or ability of its operator to use
wargamers mistakenly assume that men in combat can see their enemy
it. AFV MG FP values are effected more by observation limitations than
most of the time and that they engage in shoot-from-the-hip style firefights
the willingness of its operator to fire. A crewman of an enclosed AFy is
at every opportunity. They also assume that leaders can create and imple-
relatively well protected and with no better place to go. Firing his arma-
ment a plan of action to react to every development at a moment's notice.
ment represents the best chance of survival for a tanker--thus his will-
and having done so, can make themselves understood over the din and con-
ingness to fire is portrayed by allowing him to use any Fire card to take a
fusion of an on-going battle. Lastly, units are assumed to retain their
shot with his ordnance weapon. On the other hand that same AFV.
cohesion and ability to act according to their training manuals while under
although equipped with a MG which is every bit the equal or superior of an
fire, and to stoutly resist the enemy "to the last man"", Needless to say.
infantry MG, is often given far less firepower due to its-restricted field of
these assumptions are grossly in error because they ignore the two most
fire through the gunner's vision slit. Yet, even an AFV will run out of Fire
basic elements of combat, *"fear'' and what is often called the ""Fog of
cards occasionally and do nothing for one or or more turns. One must keep
War. Fear produces most of the irrational behavior one sees in combat, if
in mind that unlike the two minute turns of SOUADLEADER, where each
not in Hollywood depictions of same. Compounding this are the problems
To Hit attempt actually represents a series of different shots, a turn in Up
32

--- PAGE 33 [OCR] ---
FRONT may represent a few seconds and each shot is just that-a single
400 meters. To put it simply, the "effective* range of rifle fire is deter-
shell. The inability to fire for lack of a Fire card could be rationalized as
mined not by the guns themselves, but by the sighting capabilities of the
momentary difficulty in loading the next shell, or more likely, the AFy's
rifleman. At best, snipers using telescopic sights were limited to 400-600
inability to traverse its turret and adjust elevation sufficiently in the brief
meters effective range. Rifles are effective for aimed fire at point targets up
time span covered by that turn to once again place a moving target under
to 200 meters, and area or pinning fire out to 400 meters. Russian rifle
fire. This principle applies even to infantry not hampered by the restricted
values are reduced in comparison to the other nationalities not due to the
field of vision proferred by an AFV vision slit. Even when infantry are at
weapon itself, but because of their users'lower standards of marksman-
Point Blank range in terms of mere distancethey may not be in sight of each
ship. Their training emphasized closing with the enemy as soon as possible
other. In the bitter street fighting of Stalingrad, combatants coexisted in
and making use of the bayonet.
the same buildings with their adversaries for hours, or even days, without
Close combat, or more aptly **hand-to-hand*" combat, can occur once
ever seeing each other. Each side realized its close proximity to an enemy
you have infiltrated an enemy's position at Relative Range 5. Hand-to-
bent on their destruction, but was unable or unwilling to take the first step
hand combat is an iffy proposition at best, and rather rare. It took a great
that might prompt a swift and fatal reaction.-More commonly, in the
deal of courage to close with a man to kill him face-to-face. The enemy at
ordinary fire, duck, and reload process of a firefight, adversaries weren't
this range is no longer a menacing shadow, but a fellow human being.
always obliging enough to show themselves at the precise instant you raised
Actually, infiltration is the more important goal to achieve on the bat-
your head to fire. Perhaps now you are beginning to comprehend that the
tlefield. Once among the enemy position, confusion is created and panic is
Fire cards represent not so much a volume of fire, as they do the opportunity
likely to spread as a result. Panic is more deadly on the battlefield than any
to bring a certain amount of firepower to bear on an enemy. A man who
weapon. Consequently, hand-to-hand encounters are seldom ends in
has infiltrated an enemy position does not suddenly have a weapon that
themselves, but rather are often necessary if one is to accomplish his
fires twice as many rounds per minute. Rather, he has placed himself in a
ultimate goal of infiltration. Thus the rule which allows a man to keep his
position where he is more likely to be able to use his weapon on a surprised
infiltration status after close combat only if he defeats his adversary by 3 or
and confused enemy (hence the doubled firepower and consequently in-
more simulates the need to silence the enemy without betraying your own
creased number of Fire cards he is able to use).
position. Once identified as a wolf among the sheep, the infiltrator loses his
When one computes the firepower of a weapon at its various ranges,
advantage of surprise and for all intents and purposes is returned to the
consideration must be made for the willingness of its user to fire it. Crew
status of just another target within the so meter radius.
operated weapons instill a greater willingness to fire among their operators
than do light personal weapons. Men functioning in groups or crews have
far less tendency to default a fire opportunity than do single riflemen.
The Fog of War is presented in a number of different ways all crucial to
Aside from being hand-picked for their greater reliability, these crews feel
the acceptance of the game as a viable simulation. The most obvious is the
more responsible for the well-being of their squad and are more inclined to
drawing and placement of Terrain cards. Unlike conventional mapboard
act accordingly. This peer pressure reinforcement from a comrade sharing
games, what lies beyond the next hill or building is not always certain. The
responsibility for the fire of a single weapon (and not its greater volume of
position you think you're moving into (as represented by the Terrain card
fire) is the main reason the MG values are so proportionally high. Any
in your hand) may already be occupied or blocked by the enemy, or the
group containing a MG has a much greater chance of playing a Fire card
route you take to get there may be filled with unforeseen detours. Your
and hence inflicting casualties.
opponent may upset your best made plans. You cannot always avoid these
One of the most frequent complaints heard during the testing of the
uncertainties, so as a squad leader you must expect, if not plan for, the
game was related to this unwillingness of troops to fire. Players were
unexpected. It is this placement of Terrain cards that the uninitiated often
unhappy because they were unable to always fire at enemy troops at will,
dismiss as the most blatant form of luck in the game. In actuality, it is just
even at relatively close ranges. Let's forget for the moment our just com-
the opposite. From a realism viewpoint one can appreciate that unlike more
pleted discussion of the inability of a man to always see a foe within even
conventional wargames your cardboard troops don't blindly follow the
pistol range. Self-preservation, though a major motivating force, does not
dictates of the player. The Buildings card in your hand which you thought
necessarily always encourage a man to fight. There are many instances in
would offer you a safe haven may suddenly appear out of reach when the
combat where men in positions directly under attack did not fire at
all--even when their position was in the process of being overrun. Fear is a
ultimate destination by discarding a Terrain card on your group. Obviously
strong narcotic and many is the man who died on theend of a bayonet while
we are not simulating the flinging of a piece of real estate in front of an
holding a firearm whose only malfunctioned mechanism was a paralyzed
enemy by a tenth level wizard. Instead, the placement of Terrain on an
finger at the trigger.
enemy represents abstractly and cleanly the Hidden Unit rules of other
games. What is actually being simulated is the unexpected appearance of an
Portraying the different effects of various weapons at varying ranges in
enemy force which influences your moving group to alter their path.
a game with no map with which to measure distances called for a certain
Speaking strictly from a gaming viewpoint,the proper play or discarding of
amount of innovation. The concept of "'relativeranges*"not only provided
Terrain cards provides the background for some of the most vital and gut
the means for such a division of effects, but also fit nicely within the
wrenching decisions in the game when weighed against the need for obtain-
abstract framework of the game as a whole. Keeping in mind that we are
ing other types of cards at a particular time.
dealing with small unit actions, the tedious technical specifications of each
weapon can be factored into an overall formula and printed on the game
what you can see from your lofty position as player. For example, suppose
components in easy to use pieces that do not tax the memory or require the
your opponent moves one of his groups forward. You, as the omniscient
constant counting of factors and hexes to determine what type of fire is
player, see this and wish to blast his exposed troops to their final reward.
possible or advisable. For-the most part, players need not concern
But on the battlefield his move may have gone unobserved by the poor
themselves with such mathematical gymnastics. The design has accounted
devils whose task it is to oppose them with their cardboard lives. In game
for those factors. The player need only be concerned with how best to posi-
terms, it is as simple as you not having the appropriate Fire card present in
tion his available force and to react to a constantly changing set of cir-
your hand. This example can be repeated for a myriad of uses. The impor-
cumstances so as to get the most use of his available firepower. He may not
tant thing to remember is that what you are likely to curse as your bad luck
control their exact actions under fire any more than he could force a private
to effectively fire his weapon on the battlefield. All the player can do is
do. Your men down there on the battlefield cannot see things as clearly as
make decisions which deal in probabilities, and hope that the combination
you can from your safe perch at the end of the table.
of the inherent training of his men and the intervention of fate will yield the
Proper tactics of fire and movement, the underlying principles of the
desired result.
game, require that a squad leader split his forces to best take advantage of
It is important to visualize the concept of relative range""as more than
the terrain, enemy disposition, and the task at hand. However, such tactics
just the equivalent of so many football fields. Besides the concept of pure
are not without their drawbacks. By splitting his forces in this way, the
distance, other factors to be considered are visibility, LOS obstructions,
squad leader makes communication between the various components of his
and the natural curvature of the earth's surface. The ability to see and fire
squad very difficult and Command Control becomes a problem second
only to the enemy. The training and experience of the sguad (as reflected in
simple act of going to ground will often remove a target from
the card hand capacity) in reacting to these situations then becomes the
view--especially at the longer ranges. Relative Range 5 represents groups
primary consideration in surmounting the problem. Proper tactics are fur-
that are within 5o meters, but may still be physically separate. For example.
ther reinforced by the Command Control rules. Even on the squad level, a
it could, at one extreme, represent two or more groups occupying different
leader must be concerned about his flanks, and it is to the protection of his
rooms of the same building. Range 4 is 51 to 100 meters, Range 3 is 10l to
flanks that the **group*" concept.owes its existance. For without such con-
200 meters, Range 2 is 201 to 300, Range 1 is 301 to 400 meters. The far-
cerns, the player might well be tempted to merely form one large group to
thest, Range O, is in excess of 400 meters. Anything over 400 meters is out-
maximize his firepower. Besides providing an enemy with a concentrated
side normal rifle range which is the most common weapon in the game and
target for his fire, such a one group strategy also realistically limits the field
therefore the logical place to end our range variations. Those with some
of fire of his own men. A real enemy would find it easier to seek out con-
knowledge of ballistics may wonder why rifle ranges have been cut off at
cealed avenues of approach and will gain increased fire opportunities
33

--- PAGE 34 [OCR] ---
The German player has, arguably, the best hand in the game and rightly
against a static target. The game system recognizes this and awards an extra
so. Their training and combat experience was second to.none. Each
card to the hand capacity of any side whose opposition has been reduced to
German soldier was better prepared to meet each situation he might be
a single group--no matter how large or well positioned.The importance of
faced with, and their NCO's ingrained with the willingness to take the
a covering group, even if itfails to fire, cannot be overestimated. Simply by
initiative. The Germans, moreso than any other power, stressed the need
existing and showing itself as a force in being, it denies certain access routes
for their NCO's to react instantly to changing situations and act
to the enemy and prevents him from concentrating solely on the main force
independently. This flexibility of command allowed them to learn many
until it has been dealt with.
tricks throughout the war, and is reflected in game terms by their ability to
always discard despite the number of actions taken.
The passage of simulated time in the game is not as cut and dried as in
most wargames. Going through one deck of Action cards represents with
Most of the remaining mechanics of the game should appear fairly
its varying moments of intense action and quiet lulls about 5-1o minutes.
The playing of one turn is not as easy to define. One card could represent a
obvious in their intent, but a few may benefit by additional explanation.
split second or a minute or more. To move a group of men loometers could
The concept of Flanking Fire is more than just fire from a position on the
flank of an enemy unit. It could also be fire from a position which has
be done in a quick dash of two turns or could be prolonged indefinitely into
achieved a more favorable LOS to the enemy group or has moved into a
a series of short bursts of movement or an agonizing low crawl as the player
waits for a proper Terrain card or finds it neccessary to rally his troops in
new firing position unobserved. The latter becomes especially true at the
mid-move. This is something that is best left not well defined. Your oppo-
longer ranges. The ability of a moving group containing pinned men to
nent may be able to entrench in one attempt while you're still trying ten
place a new Terrain card may alsoraise questions. One must remember that
turns later. This is not to suggest that his men are ground hogs and yours
a "*pinned*' result does not necessarily mean that the individual(s) involved
are digging in with spoons, but rather that his men were better motivated
goes directly to ground. The man may still move with the group to the ter-
and able to make more effective use of the surrounding terrain in a shorter
rain it was heading for and upon reaching it, take immediate cover. Do not
confuse a ""pinned* result with a total break in morale (i.e. panic).
time interval. Perhaps your men have been hampered by random incoming
fire. In any case, entrenching does not entail digging a six foot trench or
Most of my remarks have been directed at the men who fought the bat-
even a foxhole.It could mean scooping a shallow depression into the earth
tles at the expense of their weapons. Rifles were touched upon earlier
or merely taking advantage of a natural crest or existing vegetation which
though I should perhaps explain the lesser penalty incurred by semi-
offers more in the way of protection or concealment.
automatic rifles while moving. A bolt-action rifle is difficult to operate
A good leader must be constantly thinking beyond the immediate
while running or even walking. With a semi-automatic rifle, a man can
action or objective. In UPFRONTthis is influenced greatly by the player's
maintain a constant, if inaccurate, stream of fire during an advance. The
hand capacity. For example, let's first look at the Russian player's hand
biggest advantage of the American squad is found in their M-l Rifles which
which is the most difficult of the three. The Russians were comparatively
gave them greater firepower while on the move.
poor tacticians. Due to inadequate training and inflexible leadership, their
The To Hit values of ATR's may also have raised a few eyebrows. After
tactics were among the most primitive of the participants in WW II. In con-
all, the target is the same whether you're firing a 5Omm PAK or a 14.5mm
trast to the steady stream of propaganda poured out by the political com-
rifle. However, to compensate for the relatively low penetration capability
missars, the combat orders of lower level leaders had to be kept very sim-
of these obsolescent weapons, the ATR To Hit Number represents the
ple. This condition lessened as the war progressed and will lessen in the
chance for hitting a vital part of the vehicle, rather than just the vehicle
game too if your scenario choices realistically reflect the greater instance of
itself. This is why ATR's alone enjoy an improved To Hit frequency during
Russian Guards opposing German Volksgrenadiers as the war approaches
Flanking Fire opportunities; the target is not any easier to hit, but the
its inevitable conclusion. In game terms, the Russian player will have dif-
exposed side armor of the AFV is easier to penetrate and thus the chance
ficulty planning most of his actions in advance with only a four card hand.
for hitting the vehicle in a vital area is increased.
Always spotting the next piece of covering terrain (i.e. having a Terrain
card in your hand before moving) is a good tactic that the Russian will fre-
While on the subject of To Hit Numbers, it is probably worth noting
quently be unable to afford. But there are other traits of the Russian soldier
why the random **To Hit** number is added to the effect number of HE
demonstrated in the game to their advantage in addition to their obvious
shells. The latter number is an indication of how close the ""hit"* landed.
reliance on greater numbers which gives them back the Flanking Fire and
Each HE round has a defined *"blast radius', How close the center of that
Encirclement opportunities their limited hand capacity would otherwise
blast radius is to the center of the target group will indicate the extent of its
deny them. Their unnerving disregard for human life often allows them to
effect. When firing AT rounds the target is an AFV and a **hit* is not ob-
discard pinned men rather than slow an advance, and once they've closed
tained unless the vehicle is actually struck by the round. To resolve a hit on
to Relative Range 5 with their plentiful Movement cards they are a deadly
armor, the major variable is whether the round penetrates the protective
opponent in Close Combat.The Russian's greater number of Concealment
armor. In this case, the range between the gun and target is the more impor-
cards and their lessened penalty for entrenchment attempts represent their.
tant element, so we forego adding the random number and add the relative
skill in adapting to the terrain with comparative ease. Before leaving the
range instead. In short, a ""hit** against infantry at close range is more likely
Russians, we should make note of the Commissar rules. Obviously, the
to be placed closer to the target, but a hit vs an AFv at close range is
effects of a Commissar have been inflated for the sake of chrome.A com-
guaranteed more penetration capability.
missar functioning in the field at this level would be rare and although the
reports of these political leaders shooting their soldiers have been exag-
Hopefully all of this has shed some light on the rationale behind the
gerated, it does add color to the game.
rules and will make the game more enjoyable for you to play. UP FRONT
is a game first and foremost and is meant to be played and enjoyed, but to
The American troops, although they went through more tactical train-
deny it it's place as a realistic simulation just because it is a card game is sell-
ing than the Russians, had not worked on the finer points of combat as
ing it short. While no game lacking the main ingredients of war (i.e. fear
much as the Germans. Many American small unit leaders, despite long
and the Fog of War) can ever hope to be a true simulation of armed con-
hours of training, did not truly understand their function on the battlefield.
flict, UP FRONT comes far closer than many of its more complicated
Reality turned out to be unlike what they had envisioned or trained for. In
predecessors.
addition, and quite opposite their eastern allies, the Americans placed a
high value on human life. American troops were more easily pinned during
combat (as shown by their lower average Morale), but under the proper
leadership, could recover and advance with great effect (as evidenced by
DESIGN CREDITS
their higher Panic Values). While on the subject of Panic, let's clarify that a
GAME DESIGN: Courtney F. Allen
headlong flight although that is a possibility. More likely, that man has
GAME DEVELOPMENT:Donald JGreenwood
simply reached his terror threshold and will refuse to become a willing par-
CARD ARTWORK:Scot Moores,Charles Kibler
ticipant in further proceedings regardless of the consequences. The in-
COUNTER ARTWORK: Dale Sheaffer
dividual will remain frozen in place until the fight ends. The subsequent
BOX ART & LOGO:Rodger MacGowan
check for Rout/KIA status merely tidies up the question of the man's even-
SPECIAL ASSISTANT & MVP:Rex Martin
tual fate while adding variety to the standard by which Victory Points are
RESEARCH ASSISTANCEBob McNamara
awarded.
PLAY TESTING: Jim Burnett, Andrea Cantatore, Bob Coggins, Charles Crain
Bruce Degi, Andrew Maly, Eric Posner, Craig Ransom, Jeff Scarborough, Neal
By increasing the American's hand capacity we were able to show the
Schlaffer. Jim Stahier Ross Towle
increased training of their troops and their greater material advantages,
TYPESET TING: Colonial Composition
while also demonstrating their lower level of experienced leadership by
PREP DEPT.COORDINATOR: Elaine M Adkins
allowing them a maximum of two discards only if they perform no actions
PRINTING: Monarch Avalon
during a turn.
34

--- PAGE 35 [OCR] ---
G.BLOCK CLEARING-
. OUTPOSTLINE-
ist:
Ist:
3-8,10-12.18-23,&
2-9.12.13.24-26.&
3-9,18,20,25,&34
2-15,20,23,26,28.
1-5.7.9.10.17.&18
4.9,10,13,23-25.
34.
40.
32. one radio.
& two Panzertausts.
1-10,&15.17.22.46
3-8.13.18,&20.22.
2-10,12,18.&22-26.
1.2.4-8.15.& 28.
2,5,10-16.18,26,27.
1.8-10.12,18.22,24
& one radio. +
23, &27.
&three ATMMs.
& one radio.
&40.
Rermove the first five Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as a
Remove the first four Woods Terrain cards to be discarded unused or as
RNC/RPC draw.
RNC/RPC draWS.
SPECIAL RULES:
SPECIAL RULES:
L.1 The defender may start any or all of his groups entrenched and therefore is not subject to ter-
G.1 The defending player is given a Buildings card with a TEM of -3 for placement during
rain placement by the attacking player during Prepare For Play.
Preparation for Play in addition to his normal hand.
L.2 Treat the Pillbox and Minefield cards as Cower cards.
Continued on Page 29
G.2 Only the player on defense may use Sniper cards to make Sniper attacks. The other player
must use them as Cowering cards.
G.3 The Pillbox, Marsh, and Minefield cards are treated as Cower cards.
K. ELITE TROOPS ON THE ATTACK-
1st:
VicTORY coNOITIONS: The player with armor support must have twice as many Victory Points as
Elite
the defending player at the end of the scenario. In this scenario, territorial Victory Points are
awarded only by mutiplying the number of unpinned Personality cards in each group occupying
Buildings terrain at the end of the scenario by its range chit. Casualty Victory Points are awarded
norrmally. The defending player wins by avoiding the attacker's Victory Conditions.
SS:1-5,10,15.19,26
Green: 1.2.4-8. 10-12.
Conscripts:1,4-7.
DY0:ATTACKER:665.DEFENDER 288
& 27.
19.&26.
9-11,13-15,.20-22,28.
H. ARMORED ADVANCE-
10
Ist:
Paratroopers: 3-5. 7-9
Volksgrenadier:
3-5,
11.12.17.18.20,&
Guards: 2-8,12. 13,
7-10.&22-24.
21.
20,&22-26.
3-5.7-9.11..12.18
1.6-15.21,.28.&32
3,5,8-10,23&28
Remove the first four Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as a
20.23,25,&41.
Reinforcements: 37
Reinforcerments: 2. 4.
ANC/RPC draw.
6, 17. & a Panzertaust.
SPECIAL RULES:
2-8.12.18,20,26,29.
K.1 The Pllbox and Minefield cards are treated as Cower cards.
3-8. 18 & 29. Rein-
3-10.23.24.&42
& two ATMM's. Rein-
forcements:9.11-13.20
forcements: 22-25.&
defense force of the defender. The Action Deck is not shuffled. All cards currentty in the players
one ATMM.
hands or in play on their groups are returned to the Discard pile. The four Buildings cards discarded
Rermove the first four Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as a
chit O using only those of his original men (included those who routed safely away) not lost by KiA
RNC/RPC draw.
SPECIAL RULES:
continues normally.
H.1 The Reinforcements are eligible to enter anytime after one deck of Action cards has been
K.3 Any Sniper capacity or weapons lost in the first partof the scenario are regained at the startof
used...
the second part even if carried in the form of a weapon chit in place of the norrmal printed weaponry
H.2 Treat the Pillbox and Minefield cards as Cower cards. The attacking player miust also treat
of a Personnel card. KiA's in the first segment of the scenario are not considered in calculating
Sniper cards as Cower cards.
Victory Points in the second part,and squad size in the second half is based on the number of men
H.3 The defending player gets at least one functioning Terrain card to use during Prepare for Play
which start the second part. Any wounds of men in.the Elite Force carry over to the second part.
Terrain Placement. f he has none in his hand at start, he draws cards until he gets one. Ali other
Weapons captured in the first part cannot be used in the second part.
cards drawn in the process are returned to the deck and reshuffled.
ViCTORY CONDITIONS: The first player to have at ieast four unpinned Personality cards in one or
VICTORY CONDITIONS: The attacking player wins if at any time he has at least five unpinned Per-
rmore non-infitrated groups at range chit 4 occupying any Terrain card which wil reduce the Fire
Strength of an attack against them is the winnerof that particular scenario segment. The Elite Force
which will reduce the Fire Strength of an attack against them. The defending player wins if these
must win both scenario segments to win the game.
conditions are not met by scenario end.
DYO: ELITE: 320-. SECOND LINE: 187 (twice) Reintorcements NA
DY0:ATTACKER:601,DEFENDER:465
J.FREEFORALL-
1st:★+
1-10.
1-12.
1-15.
I. PARTISANS-
1st: +
Remove the first four Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as
RPC/RNC draws.
1-10.
1.3-10,&28
SPECIAL AULES:
J.1 This is a three player game with each player playing against the other two. Flanking Fire.
Remove the first six Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as a
Encirclement, and moving to any range chit other than o through 5 is not allowed. Players need niot
RNC/RPC draw.
set up their groups opposite each other as each player can fire at the othertwo. No group can block
the movement of another. Walls are -1 terrain modifiers to allincoming attacks.All the J.1 Special
SPECIAL AULES:
Rules are ignored in favor of normal two player rules as soon as one of the three players is
eliminated.
I.1 The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower card.
J.2 The Pillbox card is treated as a Cower card. Night rules are in effect.
I.2 The German playermust treat Sniper and Minefield cards as Cower cards.The Partisan player
must use Minefield cards as Booby Traps (37.6).
VICTORY CONOITIONS: The first pliayer to have at least tour unpinned Personality Cards in one or
VICTORY CONDITIONS: The German player wins automatically if at least half of his force reaches
more non-infiltrated groups at range chit 4 occupying any Terrain card(s) which wil reduce the
range chit 5 and he has more Victory Points than the Partisan. In this scenario, Victory Points are
Fire Strength of an attack against them is the winner. However, players who cause casualties
awarded only for casualties and for the range chits occupied by the Partisan player at game end as
should keep the removed Personnel cards of their opponents as a reminder of Victory Points
per rule 16.4. The Partisan wins by avoiding the German Victory Conditions.
earned (16.4) should the Victory Conditions not be met.
DY0:ATTACKER:239.DEFENDER:143
DYO:AMERICAN:240.GERMAN:239.RUSSIAN: 241
35

--- PAGE 36 [OCR] ---
A. MEETINGOF PATROLS-
83
1st:
1-15
1-10
3-9,11,18,20,&32
1-12
3-12,19,26,28,&40.
3-10.23,&24,&two
Panzerfausts.
Remove the first five Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as a
RPC/RNC draw.
3-7,9,23,24,&31.
1-15.&18.&three
1-10,13,&22.
ATMM'S.
SPECIAL RULES:
A.1 The Pillbox and Minefield cards are treated as Cower cards.
Remove the first four Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as
RPC/RNC drawS.
VICTORY CONDITIONS: The first player to have at least four unpinned Personality cards in one or
more non-infiltrated groups at range chit 4 occupying any Terrain card which wil reduce the Fire
Strength of an attack against them is the winner.
SPECIAL RULES:
F.1 The Pilibox and Minefield cards are treated as Cower cards.
DYO: 241
VICTORY CONDITIONS: The first player to have four unpinned cards in one or more non-infitrated
groups with a "4*"range chit in terrain which will reduce the Fire Strength of any attack against
them is the winner. If neither player accomplishes this by the time limit, the defending player wins.
DYD: ATTACKER: 471,DEFENDER: 279
E.ARMOREDRECONPATROL-
B. CITY FIGHT--
1st:+
Ist:
1-9, 11.& 31.
2-9,11,12,15,22-24,
1-9.11.21,22&one
1-4.6.9.10.17.18
1-12.23,&31.
1-10.
22&one Demo Charge
Demolition Charge.
26&one Demolition
Charge.
1,2.4-9,&30
1-12.
Remove the first four Woods cards to be discarded unused or as a
1-15.
RPC/RNC draw.
SPECIAL RULES:
Remove the first four Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as
B.1 The Pillbox, Minefield,and Marsh cards are treated as Cower cards.
RPC/RNC draws.
VICTORY CONDITIONS: The player with the most Victory Points (16:4)at the end of the time limit
SPECIAL RULES:
is the winner. However aggressive action Victory Points are awarded only to those menoccupying
E.1 The Pillbox and Minefield cards are treated as Cower cards.
Buildings terrain. Victory Points for casualties (including men removed due to rout) are awarded
VicToRY coNDITIoNs: The first player to have four unpinned cards in one or more non-infiltrated
normaly.
groups with a ""4*"range chit in terrain which will reduce the Fire Strength of any attack against
DYO: 314
them is the winner. if neither playeraccomplishesthisbythetime limit,thedefending player wins.
DY0:ATTACKER: 37O.DEFENDER:241
C: ASSAULTING A FORTIFICATION-
D. REAR GUARDACTION-
103
1st:
Ist:
1,2, 4-12, 17.19,24.
1.3-6.9.10.14.17.
3-12,19,20,&23-28.
1.2,4-7.9-11.14.15
2,4.6.8-10.12.&23.
1-8.10,&12
24&one Demo Charge
&28.
24,.&25
3.5.6,9.11,12,16.
3,4,6-9.17.18.20,&
1-9.12.16,25,&one
2-10.18.22.23.&25
3-5, 8-10,23, &24.
2-7.12-14, &23-26.
17.19,20,22-26.&
27.
Demolition Charge
one Demolition Charge.
Remove the first four Buildings cards to be discarded unused or as
Remove the first Stream card and the first four Buildings cards to be
RPC/RNC drawS.
discardedunused or asa RPC/RNC draw.
SPECIAL RULES:
SPECIAL RULES:
D.1 The Sniper cards are considered Cowering cards for the attacking player. They may be
C.1 The defending player receives the Pillbox card prior to setup (23.2) in addition to his normal
played as Sniper attacks only by the Rear Guard player.
allotment of Action cards and places it on his Group B. Preparation for Play terrain placement then
D.2 The Pillbox and Minefield cards are treated as Cower cards
begins normally.
VICTORY CONDITIONS:The attacking player wins immediately if he has five unpinned Personality
C.2 Minefield and Sniper cards are treated as Cowering cards if held by the offensive player.
cards in one or more noninfiltrated groups in terrain which will reduce the Fire Strength of an
They can be used only by the player on defense:Treat all Marsh cards as Cower cards.
attack against it,ata Relative Range of 5 to any Rear Guard group.Theattacking player also wins if
VICTORY CONDITIONS: The attacking player.wins by 'eliminating all.Personality cards in the
he can reduce the defending player to one group while losing less men than the defender, If the
Pillbox or if the Pillbox is vacated. The defending player wins by avoiding the attacker's Victory
attacking player has not fulfiledeither of his victory conditions by scenaria end, the Rear Guard
Conditions.
player.wins.
DYO: ATTACKER: 369.DEFENDER: 200
DY0:ATTACKER: 319.DEFENDER: 238
8530001
36
Y-2666
10/84