--- PAGE 1 ---
The Up Front Errata Pages 
All the errata fit to correct 
Items preceded by an "*" have been corrected in the 2nd edition. 
 
2.0 Is it necessary to use an RPN for determining the position in a one-man group? 
A. No. Use an RPN draw only to determine the position of the effect (Sniper, CC Draw, Malfunction, etc.) if there is more than one 
man in the group. However, see section 19.0, Malfunction for special cases when an RPN is not necessary for a multi-man group. 
3.1 What are the 'valid' historical match-ups? 
A. Please refer to the table below: 
 
Nation 
Germany 
Japan 
Italy 
U.S.A. 
Britain 
Russia 
France 
Germany 
– 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Japan 
N 
-- 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Italy 
Y 
N 
-- 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
U.S.A. 
Y 
Y 
Y 
-- 
N 
N 
Y 
Britain 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
-- 
N 
Y 
Russia 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
-- 
N 
France 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
-- 
 
*3.3 Add: "Men may switch positions within a group during their player turn but must do so as the sole action of that group for that 
turn. Such a position switch is included as part of any successful weapon acquisition (18.2) or assistant crew assignment (11.12)."  
3.6 When a scenario specifies that a certain type of card must be removed from the deck when discarded unused or as a RNC/RPC 
draw, is it considered a "scenario defined Cower Card?"  
A. Yes. Example: a Buildings card can never be placed during Prepare for Play in scenario A. 
CLARIFICATION: Scenario defined cower cards may be freely discarded by the Japanese as are cards that are cower cards for their 
side. E.g. Snipers and/or minefields as the attacker in scenario C. 
4.1 In French/Italian scenarios who sets up and plays first in scenarios A, B, & J if no German is played? 
A. The side with the least DYO points. Failing that, the Axis player, defined as, in order, German, Japanese, Italian, French. 
VARIANT: Since scenarios A, B and J are meeting engagements, it is unrealistic to assume that the Axis player will always have the 
"advantage" of first move. If both players agree, each player draws a card and compares card control numbers (the little blue number 
between 1 and 162). High draw sets up and plays first. 
4.3 & 14.5 During a multi-card discard, can the player observe the results of one discard before deciding where and/or if to discard 
another? 
A. No. Rule 7.3 and 7.32 specifically state that discards are resolved prior to the next turn, not prior to the next discard. 
Discard Capability, 4.32, 4.33, 14.5 and 44.1 Can nationalities with multi-card discard capability discard two or more wires on a 
single group in a single turn? 
A. Yes. 
Examples: 
[NOTE: The examples assume that the indicated discards are valid for the scenario and situation (i.e. the discarding side has sniper 
capability).] 
Non-moving Group: May discard any number of SNIPERS and/or any number of WIRE cards. 
Moving Group: May discard one terrain card and/or any number of snipers and/or any number of WIRE cards. Rejecting the terrain 
does NOT reject the WIRE. If the terrain is accepted and WIRE is not allowed in that type of terrain (e.g. MARSH) then the WIRE is 
discarded. 
Two Moving Groups Exchanging Group Letters: Same as a moving group with two additions. If either group rejects a terrain 
discard, the position exchange is cancelled. If terrain is discarded on one group and accepted, the moving player MUST complete the 
position exchange by placing the other group in terrain (including open ground) on his next turn. 
4.4, 5.41 & 7.2 Are the cards drawn for resolution placed on the table, or are they immediately discarded? This is important for 
determining which and how many cards go into the deck if the resolution spans decks. 
A. First line of 4.4. They and their Fire card(s) are immediately discarded.  
Common practice is to leave all cards used in an attack on the table until the attack is resolved, or a draw is needed and the draw pile 
is empty. In the latter case, use some method to indicate the next PC to be attacked (or other pending action), discard all cards used in 
the attack to that point, re-shuffle, and then continue the attack. 
4.5 Refilling one's hand is optional. However, if the decision is made to draw cards, a player MUST draw to a full hand.

--- PAGE 2 ---
5. Movement. Movement cards not played directly to the discard pile cannot be voluntarily cancelled. 
5.41 & 7.2 These rules show that placed terrain stays in place until new terrain replaces it. Thus, even though terrain may no longer 
be usable for TEM due to active movement cards, the terrain cards are left on the board, and not discarded until terrain is finally 
placed. Specifically, a terrain card remains on the table regardless of the number of movement cards in play on that group.  
5.51 Relative Range less than 0 is treated as 0 for firepower and To Hit purposes. Actual Relative Range is used to determine if a 
Group may Retrograde. 
5.61 Is the Relative Range only decreased by one even if the groups in question are A and D? 
A. Yes. 
6.5 May you opt to not resolve fire combat even if the defender did not play a concealment card? 
A. Yes, but if you fire at even one defender, you must fire at all defenders. 
6.5 Can you stop the Fire Combat Resolution when you are halfway (or any other point) through a target group (e.g. stop the 
resolution on the 4th man out of 6 men)? (This would be done to avoid weapon malfunction or to keep the deck from running out.) 
A. No. 
6.5 & 25.4 Does the attacker have the option of foregoing the resolution of an ordnance hit after seeing the Final Strength Number? 
A. No, but the attack can be cancelled after seeing the final "To Hit" number. This includes the play of any concealment. Once the 
"To Hit" card is drawn, the attack must be completed. 
7.32 Can a group with pinned men reject terrain? 
A. Yes. 
Can a player with multi-card discard capability, discard one terrain card on a group, have it rejected, and still discard another terrain 
card on the same group in the same turn? 
A. No. 
Even if the two were discarded simultaneously? 
A. No. 
If you have two Movement cards in play above a terrain card and subsequently reject enough terrain to remove both Movement 
cards, are you in the terrain card or Open Ground? 
A. The terrain card. 
7.32 If a weapon has been dropped in terrain, and you move from that terrain, but subsequently (due to rejecting terrain) you end up 
returning to that terrain, are the weapons still available for acquisition? 
A. No. Reference 18.4, the weapon is removed when you play the movement card. 
Delete 8.532. Rule 17.7 is correct. 
*8.9 Insert after the first sentence: "Exc: A defending group on a Wall card may subtract only one from the Fire Strength of a mortar 
or artillery attack." 
10.2 Can you play a Rally card on a group with no pinned men in order to get it out of your hand? 
A. No. 
10.23 Can you rally an AFV and a same range, adjacent group that has an unpinned leader with a "RALLY ALL" card? 
A. Yes, but only if the AFV is an OT-AFV. 
10.3 Can you voluntarily rout out an unpinned man? 
A. No. 
10.3 & 50.41 Can a surrendered Italian group or parts thereof voluntarily panic prior to being captured? 
A. No. 
10.4 The SL is pinned at the end of a player's turn. On his hand refill he draws a hero, which he uses on the SL. Can he now draw a 
full hand? 
A. Yes, rule 10.4. 
10.4 During a Fire attack, can an infiltrator who gets a pinned result play a hero card immediately and keep his infiltration? 
A. Yes.

--- PAGE 3 ---
10.4 Can you hero an unpinned man upon drawing a hero just to get another draw? 
A. No. 
10.45 Can you hero an unpinned man when the group is not firing, just to get it out of your hand? 
A. No. 
10.45 Can a player use a Hero card to double a PC's firepower, even if the extra firepower is not needed in order to play the resultant 
fire card? 
A. Yes, especially if playing a campaign game where elan points are being accumulated. However, a player cannot play the Hero 
card to no effect. 
10.45 Can you play two Hero cards on the same man simultaneously to triple his firepower if he wasn't already entitled to double 
firepower? 
A. No. 
10.45 & 17.4 Which values for crewed LMGs are used for non-Hero caused doubled firepower?  
A. The fully crewed value is used for flanking bonuses. The bracketed value is doubled only for Heroes using crewed weapons. 
11.11 Can a PC whose primary weapon is a crew-served weapon act as a crewman for another crew-served weapon (e.g. a mortar PC 
act as a crew for a MMG)? 
A. No. An exception to this would be a man whose primary weapon was a crew served weapon, but is unarmed, and that man 
transferred into a group with another crew served weapon. 
11.11 & 17.8 & 18.2 When can a group rearrange their order? Can this be done as the sole action for a group?  
A. Yes. 
How about following individual transfer (17.8)? 
A. No.  
After crewing/uncrewing a weapon (11.11)?  
A. Yes, see 11.12.  
A group may also rearrange its order after a successful weapon acquisition (18.2).  
Read full text of rule 3.3 and 4.25 
11.2 The PC who is carrying a radio as a SW, is also a crewman. Can the radio still be used?  
A. No. 
11.2 & 14.4 In a two-man group consisting of a crewed weapon whose principal operator is pinned, can the assistant crewman 
perform a sniper check? 
A. Yes. He is still armed even though he has no firepower. 
12.11 & 17.4 Does the simultaneous halving of firepower for Moving Fire and doubled firepower for Flanking Fire leave a Bolt 
Action Rifle with its normal firepower? 
A. Yes. 
13.2 Can ANY AFV place smoke on itself? Or, is an anti-armor Effect number of 4 required? 
A. To place smoke on self, AFV must be US, British, or German. To place smoke on other group (friendly or enemy), AFV must be 
US, British, or German AND have boxed FS of 4 or better. 
13.32 Does a hit by ordnance attacking from Wire also subtract one from its Hit strength? 
A. No. 
13.33 & 18.4 Does the playing of a movement card to remove wire cause weapon counters to be lost? Does the play of ARTIFICIAL 
Terrain remove weapons counters? 
A. Yes. No. 
14.2 & 17.8 If a group that a man is transferring to is fired on by a Sniper, is he also a legitimate target for the Sniper? If so, what 
position is the transferring man considered to occupy?  
A. Yes. The first position. 
14.2 May a sniper attack a pinned British Bren Carrier or Wasp? 
A. Yes.

--- PAGE 4 ---
14.3 & 33.1 Can a man be wounded as a result of a sniper attack? If yes, would column "7w" of the RNC used to resolve the Sniper 
Attack be checked -anytime- a man is removed due to the attack? 
A. Yes. No, a P2-3/K4-6 sniper that affected a pinned man would check for a wound on a RNC draw of 2-3 if the man routed or on 
an RNC of 4. 
14.4 & 48.42 If a group is attacked by more than one Sniper, which RNC must it beat in a Sniper Check? 
A. The lowest absolute value. Example: Against multiple sniper results of a black 2 and a red 4, the affected group would perform a 
Sniper Check using a value of 2. 
14.41 The last sentence of 48.4 states "This dual Sniper attack capability can also be used in DYO scenarios where additional snipers 
are purchased." This seems to be in contradiction to 14.41. Which is correct? 
A. Both, but treat 48.4 as "in force" for/random reinforcement snipers. A DYO purchased "Double Sniper" is just Sniper insurance -- 
it takes two successful Sniper checks to eliminate Sniper capability. 
A Sniper Random Reinforcement does the following: 
1. Gives ordinary Sniper capability if player does not currently have it (lost it, or not have at start) 
2. Serves as a Dual Sniper (makes two attacks per Sniper card played) for a player who already has a Sniper. 
15.1 & 48.3 When reinforcements include an ASL, does he function as an auxiliary ASL, in case of the loss of the original SL or 
ASL? 
A. Yes. 
15.52 Does the increase to Morale and Panic values apply to the Commissar himself? 
A. No; he is not with an unpinned Commissar. 
16.2 As it is important to note a breeze card pulled during a player's turn, should all cards played during a player's turn remain on the 
table and not returned to the deck during re-shuffling at the deck's end (when the player's turn is not complete) and only placed in the 
discard tray at the end of the player's turn? (This is also important in attacker vs. defender scenarios when the defender wants to run 
out the deck AND this is especially important if a wire card or stream card were pulled in the attack -- one player may especially 
want them NOT shuffled into the deck). 
A. No. When the deck runs out, all cards that will be placed in the discard tray are shuffled into the deck immediately. The attack is 
then resolved from that point and the game continued. 
16.3 At the end of the last deck, a player decides to enter close combat. 16.3 states that if the last deck of the game runs out in the 
resolution of an attack, it is re-shuffled and the attack completed. What is the definition of the "attack" in close combat for these 
purposes? 
A. Specifically for the last deck, if the deck runs out during morale checks, the game is over. The "attack" commences when making 
the RPC check, therefore, from that point forward, should the deck run out, re-shuffle and complete the attack. 
16.4 So you really mean that no VP's are awarded for moving men at the end of a scenario, even if they are at range chit 5? 
A. Yes. That is the risk you take when waiting for the relative artificial safety of the end of the deck to move. The rule was 
deliberately created to limit such unrealistic end-of-game tactics. 
16.4 Units which are at a negative Range Chit and in Terrain applicable to the scenario being played earn negative points (i.e. reduce 
the score of the owning player). For example, a group of three men in Scenario B, occupying Buildings terrain at Range Chit -1 
would yield -3 Victory Points. The same group in scenario B occupying Brush terrain would yield 0 Victory Points. 
16.42 When a scenario has a Victory Condition that requires you to have some number of unpinned Personality cards in one or more 
non-infiltrated groups with a ''4'' range chit..." can you also win if some are at RC 5 or greater?  
A. No. All personality cards must be at the same range chit, as specified in the scenario victory conditions. The scenario victory 
conditions should be considered implicit. 
Even in the case of Scenario U, Personality cards fulfilling Victory conditions must be at the same range chit? 
A. In Scenario U, units may occupy different range chits and claim victory. 
16.42 Would a Wire card on top of a Wall card negate that Group for Victory Conditions fulfillment if an opposing group exists 
which is not directly opposite it? 
A. No. Even if no opposing group was directly opposite it to be affected by the TEM, the Wall card is not reduced to total 
ineffectiveness and, therefore, can be used to fulfill Victory Conditions. However, a Wall card cannot be used to fulfill Victory 
Conditions if there are two Wire cards on it. Similarly, an occupied Hill card with its +1 modifier cannot be used to negate the 
opponent's TEM for purposes of fulfilling Victory Conditions.

--- PAGE 5 ---
16.5 Two players are both in danger of having their squad broken. During a close combat struggle, the random draw results in a tie, 
eliminating both combatants, and both squads are broken. Is the game a tie, with both sides losing? If not, how is victory determined? 
A. It counts as a loss for both players. 
16.5, 32, 50.41, Broken Squad, Prisoners, and Surrender 
Prisoners DO count as casualties toward the calculation of a Broken Squad. 
Groups which have surrendered but have not been captured do not count as casualties toward the calculation of a Broken Squad. 
 
17.1 CLARIFICATION. Flank status is declared at the time the movement card is played, and is conditional based on the position of 
the groups involved at the time the card is played. 
17.1 & 17.7 Can you play a Flank card sideways merely to allow you to change terrain or ford a stream without gaining either of 
those benefits?  
A. Yes. 
*17.3 Insert after "other" in the last sentence" "and in which one group may simultaneously flank two adjacent groups." 
17.3 Is Natural Flanking Fire lost per 17.41-17.44 or just Flanking Fire generated by the play of a Flank card? 
A. All forms of Flanking Fire are lost by those actions, including a group playing a movement card to encircle. 
17.3 In the example below, if Red Group B moves up to Range Chit 2, does it have to choose whether to get natural flanking fire on 
A or C or does it get natural flanking fire on both? 
BLACK 
RED 
A[4] 
A[0] 
B[3] 
B[1] 
C[4] 
C[0] 
Red Group B gets natural flanking fire on both Black groups A and C.  
Black groups A and C get natural flanking fire on Red group B.  
17.4 Can ordnance get flanking fire against infantry targets? 
A. No. 
17.4 In a group at Relative Range 1 that has flanking fire on an opponent, would a wounded man with a bolt action rifle have a 
firepower of 1 or 0? 
A. His firepower would be 1. 
CLARIFICATION: Perform all halving and doubling of firepower before rounding down fractions. This applies to all modifiers of 
firepower. 
17.4 and 28.53 Play of a movement card to attempt Bog Removal is not sufficient to break Flank status. 
17.44 ADD: Flanking fire is lost if the flanking group completes a lateral group transfer. 
17.6 This rule states, "To be eligible for Encirclement, the adjacent enemy group must have an opposing group directly in front of it. 
These two encircling groups do not have to be capable of fire; they merely have to exist." 
This implies that range doesn't matter.  
A. Incorrect. In 17.62, the directly opposing group must be at RR2 or closer to the encircled group. 
This implies that you don't need a functioning weapon.  
A. Correct. 
17.6 Rule 17.6 states that the encircling group must play a sideways Movement card "while still at relative range 4" to encircle. Rule 
17.63 implies that a group does not have to be at Relative Range 4 to encircle, but could be at Relative Range 3, etc., so long as they 
are behind the target group. These seem contradictory, which is correct? 
A. There is no contradiction. Encirclement has to occur at Relative Range 4, but the range may change thereafter, still leaving the 
enemy group encircled. 
17.6 & 48.33 Are reinforcements, entering in a sideways mode (without the Flanking Fire card of 35.3) at Range Chit 0 and behind 
an adjacent group A or D, entitled to Flanking Fire advantages? 
A. Yes. 
17.6 In the example below, if Black Group A makes a Lateral Group Transfer to B, can it simultaneously encircle RED Group C? 
BLACK 
RED 
A[4] 
A[0] 
B[0] 
C[2] 
C[2] 
A. No.

--- PAGE 6 ---
17.613 Are panic values reduced for purposes of rout resolution? 
A. No. The Panic value is decreased, not the Rout formula on the back of each man's card. 
*17.62 Add to end: "or both encircling groups find themselves '"In front of"' the encircled group." 
17.62 If an encircled group retreats so that both the encircling groups are in front of it, but still closer than Relative Range 1, is the 
encirclement broken? 
A. Yes. 
*17.7 Add to end of 8th sentence: "unless its Lateral Group Transfer did not depend on the success of the other group vacating the 
area it is moving to." 
17.7 When making a Lateral Group Transfer, can another Movement card be subsequently played on one of the involved groups in 
the forward/reverse mode before completing the transfer by play of a Terrain card? 
A. No. 
17.7 This rule states that a lateral group transfer is not complete (i.e. the new group chit is not placed) until terrain is placed and 
accepted. How does that apply in a group exchange? Do both groups need to have terrain placed before the transfer is complete?  
A. Yes. 
If one group rejects discarded terrain, is the transfer nullified?  
A. Yes.  
Must both groups play terrain in the same turn for the transfers to be effective?  
A. Yes. ID Chits are exchanged once both groups have ACCEPTED or received new terrain.  
Example: If either one of the groups rejects terrain, it loses it movement status and the transfer of both groups is canceled. However, 
if one of the two groups involved in a group exchange has terrain discarded on it, and the terrain is accepted, the other group involved 
MUST be placed in Terrain (or open ground) during its turn as its sole action for that turn, thereby completing the group exchange. 
Incorrect Example: If two groups are both making lateral transfers (e.g. group C to D and group B to C) then if the leading group (C) 
fails it's transfer, then the other group (B) could not transfer either. If C fails, could they try again prior to B completing their transfer, 
thus allowing both to transfer without B having to play another movement card?  
A. No, the situation described above is illegal. See 17.7, third sentence: "Such a group ID transfer can occur only if there is no other 
friendly group in that position at the start of the turn." So B could not go to C until the turn after C became D. 
17.7 When groups are exchanging positions, could the move be completed when one group plays a terrain card and the other plays a 
second movement card (assuming the terrain they are leaving is not marsh or stream)? 
A. No. 
17.7 If two groups are exchanging positions and one group is completely eliminated before they could place terrain, is the remaining 
group allowed to go into the new position (assume B and C are in a group exchange, and B is eliminated, can C, on its turn, become 
B by placing terrain)? 
A. Yes. 
17.7 & 17.9 Can a group Z or E be created if the enemy has created such a group via reinforcements?  
A. Yes. 
If so, is the "threat" of such a group (e.g. known reinforcements coming in as E later in the game) enough to allow you to create a 
counter group (E) prior to the entry of the reinforcements?  
A. No.  
Clarification: You cannot create a group Z nor a group E except as the result of reinforcements. 
17.8 Can a man being transferred between stationary groups be affected by a red To Hit RNC draw? 
A. Yes, as per 25.31, the transferred man is affected the same as the defending target group.  
17.8 If Groups A & C each transfer a man to Group B simultaneously, can B receive both of them with one action?  
A. Yes. 
17.8 This rule uses the term "man" instead of Personality card, but, for completeness, can an IG make and individual transfer?  
A. Yes, but 34.3 applies.  
17.8 May a man make an Individual Transfer into or from a group that has a Movement card in play from a previous turn? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 When a man is in the process of transferring and the receiving group is fired on, what position does the transferring man occupy

--- PAGE 7 ---
for purposes of the fire resolution? 
A. Transferring men are always attacked first. 
17.8 When an individual transfer takes place, the group receiving the transfer can not be rearranged at that time (3.3). Where then do 
the transferring men go? Are the placed at the front of the group, at the back, or can they be placed anywhere they want, just so long 
as the rest of the group order is not changed? 
A. They can be placed anywhere the owning player wants, just so long as the rest of the group order is not changed. 
Example: Group A - 5, 7, 2, 10; Group B - 3, 8 (transferring), 11 can become: 
Group A - (8, 5, 7, 2, 10) or (5, 8, 7, 2, 10) or (5, 7, 8, 2, 10) or (5, 7, 2, 8, 10) or (5, 7, 2, 10, 8). 
*17.8 Insert in the 5th sentence between "move" and "until": "from that range chit". 
17.8 & 11.13 Can the holder of a crew-served weapon begin an individual transfer if the weapon is currently crewed? Can the 
crewman? 
A. No. No.  
17.8 & 20.39 If an opposing group wishes to infiltrate a group whose last member is in the act of a transfer, does the infiltration 
attempt suffer the two-column shift to the right for movement? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 Before an Individual Transfer is completed, the opponent places wire on the "sending" group. Since the Transfer was begun 
when the sending group had no wire, can the transfer still be completed? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 Can an individual transfer INTO a group in wire? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 If an individual uses a "ford" movement card for an individual transfer out of a stream is the fording automatic? If the individual 
is fired upon and pinned before he completes the transfer is he returned to the stream? 
A. Yes. Yes. 
17.8 Can a Hero be immediately played upon a man just pinned in a transfer, allowing him to continue the transfer? 
A. Yes. 
17.8 A man in the act of Individual Transfer may not participate in the Fire Attacks or any other action of the groups he is between, 
other than to be received by one of those groups, thus ending the Individual Transfer. A man in the act of Individual Transfer is 
subject to the effects of any attacks made on the groups he is between as if he were a member of both groups. 
17.8 Can men in the process of Individual Transfer fire? 
A. No. 
17.8 Can a transfer be cancelled, returning the transferees to their original group, as that group's sole action, merely by announcing 
that intention and removing the transfer chit(s)? 
A. No. 
17.9 If a new group is being created, can the transferring men be attacked as the new group, even if it has not yet been placed?  
A. No.  
17.92 Can the opponent play terrain on the not yet created group, thus creating the group (or not if terrain is refused)? If yes, what 
happens if the transferring PCs decline the terrain? 
A. Yes. They are sent back to the original group, and are not still transferring. 
 
*18.1 Insert after 3rd sentence: "Exc: An infiltrator who is eliminated leaves his weapon in the infiltrated group.  
18.1 & 20.8 Do unposessed weapons remain with captured terrain and thus become subject to future acquisition attempts?  
A. Yes.  
18.1 Does the principal operator of a crew-served weapon leave his weapon behind even if the weapon is not currently being served 
by a crewman?  
A. Yes.  
18.2 The primary operator of a crewed weapon is killed, and the crewman is pinned. If another member of the group acquires the

--- PAGE 8 ---
weapon before the crewman is rallied (and, therefore, able to acquire it automatically), is the crewman still considered to be crewed 
to the weapon?  
A. Yes.  
18.21 May an armed man give his primary and only weapon to an unarmed man?  
A. No, unless the armed man is wounded.  
18.21 & 33.3 To clarify these two rules:  
A pinned man can never be involved in a weapon exchange.  
Weapon exchanges of primary weapons must involve at least one wounded man.  
Weapon exchanges of secondary weapons need not involve a wounded man.  
18.22 Does an assistant crewman still have crewman status when the principal operator of a crew served weapon is KIA in regard to 
a close combat attack?  
A. Yes, but be sure to note Rule 20.71.  
18.4 Does the playing of a movement card to remove wire result in the loss of any unacquired weapons?  
A. Yes.  
18.4 Does the play of artificial terrain, i.e. smoke or wire, cause the loss of any unacquired weapons?  
A. No.  
19 Weapon Malfunction 
If an Ordnance weapon is firing using the To Hit process (25.3), and the To Hit RNC is in the range of the malfunction values for that 
weapon, the Ordnance weapon malfunctions, automatically. 
If a group is conducting a Fire Attack (6) then ALL weapons in the group are considered to be firing with the following exceptions: 
 Flamethrowers designated as not firing 
 Secondary weapons (e.g. Demo Charge, panzerfaust) 
 Ordnance 
 Non-firing infiltrators 
 Weapons of designated assistant crewmen (however, continue reading)  
If an RNC drawn to resolve the Fire Attack is equal to the malfunction value of only one weapon, that weapon malfunctions 
automatically, and no RPC is drawn to determine which weapon malfunctions. 
Example: Japanese Group comprised of R, R, R, LMG. The RNC is a RED 5. The LMG automatically malfunctions, because it is the 
only weapon with a malfunction value of a RED 5. 
If the group is comprised of only one armed man, that weapon automatically malfunctions, and no RPC is drawn. 
Example: In the following four groups: (R; MP; LMG; R, Unarmed Man), no RPC is drawn to determine which weapon 
malfunctions. 
If none of the previous cases applies, then an RPC is drawn to determine which position is affected by the malfunction. Do include 
Unarmed men, and DO NOT include Men transferring. The following results and their impacts are (use the first case that applies): 
 Unarmed man - no effect. 
 Man is currently pinned - weapon malfunctions, no effect on FS. 
 Ordnance weapon or its designated crewman - no effect. Note that an ATR using FP is not considered firing as ordnance, 
and therefore both the ATR and the crewman are subject to malfunction. 
 Designated non-firing Flamethrower or Infiltrator - no effect 
 Designated crewman of a firing MG - no malfunction, continue attack with -1 FS 
 Weapon with 0 Firepower at the current range - weapon malfunctions, continue attack with -0 FS 
 Firing weapon malfunctions, and attack continues with one less FS for every 2 FP factors the weapon was contributing to 
the attack, fractions rounded up.  
Malfunctioned weapons have a base malfunction number of red 6 regardless of the malfunction number printed on the card. 
19.13 Does a 5-man group containing an unarmed man check for malfunction under the "5" column?  
A. Yes. If the unarmed man's position malfunctions, there is no reduction in fire strength. The same process holds for groups with 
non-firing weapons, such as an unpinned flamethrower beyond Relative Range 5.  
Japanese LMG Malfunction 19.13, 19.14, 19.2 and 45.52 The Japanese conduct a fire attack with a group including their LMG. A 
red 5 is drawn as an RNC, and the LMG malfunctions. If in the course of the SAME attack, a second red 5 RNC is drawn, is the 
LMG removed? Assuming the above attack continues without a red 5/6 RNC being drawn, what if, in a SUBSEQUENT attack, made 
by this group before the LMG is repaired, another red 5 is drawn. Is the weapon removed?  
A. No. No. The breakdown number of any malfunctioned weapon is a red 6.  
19.13 & 19.14 These rules seem contradictory on the malfunction of a weapon of a designated Assistant crewman; which is correct?

--- PAGE 9 ---
A. Both are. 19.14 refers to already malfunctioned weapons and those of pinned men and takes precedence over 19.13 when either of 
those conditions exist. In other words, the weapon of a designated Assistant Crewman is safe from malfunction unless he is pinned or 
that weapon is already malfunctioned.  
19.15 Does a non-fully crewed LMG (or a captured weapon) automatically malfunction if firing from a group containing only regular 
rifles on a red "6" RNC?  
A. No for the LMG. The LMG would automatically malfunction on a red 5 RNC, but if a red 6 is drawn, the question of which 
weapon will malfunction is resolved normally. A captured weapon would automatically malfunction on a Red 5 or 6, per 20.741. 
Should there be more than one weapon that malfunctions on a red 5 RNC, then an RPC should be drawn to determine which eligible 
weapon malfunctions.  
19.15 If a fully crewed LMG is using its bracketed firepower to fire from a stream, does it malfunction on a red 5 RNC?  
A. Yes.  
19.15 When playing a Hero on the German LMG, you double the bracketed firepower. Is the LMG therefore considered to be firing 
with the bracketed malfunction rates?  
A. No. However, that same German LMG playing a Hero card while firing from a stream WOULD breakdown on its bracketed 
malfunction rates.  
*19.15 EX Delete "or red 6". Add at end: "Should a red 6 be drawn, the question of which weapon may malfunction is resolved 
normally."  
19.3 & 20.6 Can more than one repair attempt be made per group per turn or can more than one man drop his infiltrator per group per 
turn?  
A. No; "sole action".  
19.3 Can an AFV repair a weapon while it is stunned?  
A. No.  
19.4 If a mortar is eliminated through a failed repair attempt, does the PC still get the stated Firepower at close range? If yes, does the 
mortar need to be crewed to get that Firepower? Likewise, if at close range with an enemy, can the mortar be uncrewed so as to get 
both the Firepower of the mortar and that of the ex-crewman?  
A. You do not get the Firepower form an eliminated mortar. A mortar does not need to be crewed in order to get the stated Firepower 
at close range.  
20.2 May a player elect to cancel remaining designated infiltration attempts upon seeing the result of earlier ones?  
A. No.  
20.24 & 52.13 Can a man in a Wadi infiltrate normally or only with a Movement card?  
A. Only with a movement card.  
20.3 Must the decision to play a Concealed card be made prior to the RPC draw?  
A. Yes.  
20.39 The last member of Group A has begun an individual transfer to Group B. An enemy group wishes to infiltrate Group A. When 
checking for infiltration, does the attempt suffer a two-column shift to the right for movement?  
A. Yes.  
20.5 If an infiltrator is KIA, what happens to his weapon?  
A. The weapon is in his group if he was KIA by a fire/sniper attack. The weapon is in the infiltrated group if he was KIA in Close 
Combat.  
*20.51 Insert after "Fire attack": "by his group".  
20.52 If two friendly groups that have infiltrated a common enemy group enter Close Combat on the same turn, is the Close Combat 
resolved as one large Close Combat, i.e. simultaneous, or as two separate Close Combats?  
A. They are resolved as two separate Close Combats.  
*Add 20.57 An infiltrator may attempt to acquire any unpossessed weapon of the infiltrated group as if it were his own group (18.2), 
unless that weapon still has a designated assistant crewman.  
*20.72 Delete "unpinned".

--- PAGE 10 ---
20.73 An infiltrator enters close combat with a man carrying a demolition charge. The infiltrator defeats his opponent by more than 3,
allowing him to keep his infiltrator status. Under rule 20.74, he is entitled to the enemy demo charge, but how does he set it off?  
A. The infiltrator must drop his infiltrator status and re-infiltrate to set off the demo charge. The best way to respond to capturing the 
weapon in this situation is to decline keeping infiltration status after the Close Combat, even though it could be maintained.  
*20.74 Add to end of first sentence: "or removing it from play." Add at end: "The man may later voluntarily abandon or destroy his 
captured weapon only as his group's sole action for the turn."  
20.74 Can Light Anti-Tank weapons be captured in Close Combat?  
A. Yes, but the killed man's primary OR secondary weapon may be captured. The other weapon requires an acquisition check on a 
subsequent turn if possible or applicable.  
*Add 20.742 If two men eliminated each other in CC their weapons remain in the infiltrated group for possible acquisition - 
including acquisition by any infiltrator of the group."  
20.8 When a group is eliminated in CC and its terrain is captured, is the capturing group also entitled to a change of range or Group 
ID chit?  
A. No.  
20.8 Is the last played terrain card of an infiltrated group which has been eliminated while in the act of a double move subject to 
capture?  
A. No, because it is occupying Open ground. However, that Open ground could be captured by claiming the first Movement card and 
flipping it over.  
20.8 If a group that has infiltrators fires at the infiltrated group using all of the men in the group, thereby losing infiltration, and the 
enemy group is completely eliminated, are the attackers still considered infiltrators for purposes of terrain capture?  
A. No.  
20.9 CLARIFICATION: Berserk status allows CC in situations not normally allowed (i.e. vs. Pillbox or Minefield or from a Pillbox, 
Wire, Stream or Marsh). No infiltration check is made, and there is neither modification made nor any check taken due to terrain or 
artificial terrain situations. 
20.91 & 20.74 Does 20.91 regarding principal operators of crewed weapons take precedence over 20.74?  
A. Yes; operators of crewed weapons cannot capture weapons.  
21.1 Men armed with certain weapons are not able to carry secondary weapons, such as a demolition charge. Say a group is made up 
of a man with a flamethrower and a man carrying a demo charge. The man with the FT is killed. In order for the other man to acquire 
the flamethrower, he must abandon the demo charge. Rule 45.6 would seem to establish a precedent for this abandonment NOT 
counting as an action, as would rule 18.21. Does abandonment of a secondary weapon count as a separate action from the attempt to 
acquire the weapon?  
A. In this instance, the acquisition of the primary weapon and abandonment of the secondary weapon are simultaneous. However, 
additional clarification is needed.  
A primary weapon that does not allow its possessor to carry secondary weapons may not itself be possessed as a secondary weapon. 
Otherwise, a man abandons his currently possessed secondary weapon when he SUCCESSFULLY ACQUIRES the new secondary 
weapon. Additionally, a man may acquire a primary weapon that does not allow the possession of secondary weapons only by 
abandoning ALL currently possessed weapons upon acquiring the new primary weapon. Conversely, a man with a primary weapon 
that does not allow possession of secondary weapons must acquire the primary and secondary weapons of a killed man as two 
separate actions.  
21.2 Does an infiltrator who sets off a Demolition Charge lose its infiltration status?  
A. Yes - as per normal application of 20.53.  
21.2 How can a Demo Charge be used with a strength of 8 against an AFV?  
A. It can't. A Demo Charge can be used versus armored targets only in CC and only as a +4 CC DRM (28.81).  
21.3 Do Smoke or Fire cards modify a Demo Charge attack?  
A. Only Smoke cards on the defender's group modify a Demo Charge attack.  
22.1 Do flamethrower attacks negate the -1 modifier of a defender's entrenchment?  
A. Yes.  
22.5 Can each man's boxed value of one (at RR5) be combined with the boxed value of a FT in attacking a pinned Open Topped

--- PAGE 11 ---
AFV?  
A. Yes. 22.5 (Last line in parenthesis).  
22.5 Can a group of rifles and a FT make two attacks vs. an unpinned open topped AFV (assuming the correct fire card(s)), one with 
their firepower (rifles + FT) vs. the exposed crew using the unboxed defensive values and then the second boxed attack (1 per man + 
FT) vs. the boxed defense?  
A. Yes. This is the reference provided in the last sentence of the rule.  
22.5 Does the FT man also have a 1 boxed firepower in addition to the FT (like riflemen have)?  
A. No, the FT's firepower is already boxed and that is the boxed firepower available to that personality card at relative range five. It 
does not get a bonus boxed firepower of "1" at Relative Range 5 per 28.7.  
22.5 Would a FT man have a boxed fire power of 1 when the FT is malfunctioned or if he is unarmed?  
A. Yes, and this applies to non-FT men.  
23.8 Can a pillbox be encircled?  
A. Yes, but 23.8 overrides the effects of 17.612 (i.e. Flanking Fire Vs a pillbox is obtainable only by 23.7).  
24.33 Which Flank Armor Defense value is the one to use for a minefield attack?  
A. The Immobilize defense value.  
24.33 How does an AFV exit a minefield?  
A. Minefield attacks versus an AFV are treated the same as if they were against an infantry group, except that it attacks with a base 
anti-armor strength of 1. The AFV defends with its immobilization Flank Armor Defense.  
24.6 & 52.11 Are minefield cards removed from the deck in a Desert scenario if rejected by the opponent or accepted and 
subsequently proved fake?  
A. No.  
25.3 Can Ordnance opt not to fire, and just discard the fire card, after seeing all the modifiers (as in a fire attack) after concealment is 
played (or even if there is no concealment)?  
A. Yes, this is the same situation described in 6.5. The attack may be called off once the To Hit number is known, but not after 
drawing the To Hit result.  
*25.41 Change "normally" to "only".  
25.5, 25.6 A non-moving piece of ordnance has its "to hit frequency" modified by range, wire and a concealed card to needing a RNC 
draw of 5 to hit its non-moving target. A red 5 is drawn as the RNC. Does the ordnance malfunction instead of making a hit?  
A. Yes.  
25.8 What other AFVs can fire smoke?  
A. British AFVs with an anti-armor Effect Number of 4 or more can fire smoke.  
25.8 The Italian AFV #32, the Flamethrower has an anti-armor effect number of 4 or more, but only at Relative Range 5. Can the 
Italian Flamethrower lay smoke?  
A. No.  
25.8 Can an AFV place smoke if its main armament is malfunctioning or broken? 
A. No. 
26.3 If a mortar is eliminated (through a failed repair attempt) does the PC still get the stated firepower value at close range?  
A. No.  
Likewise if at close range with an enemy, can the mortar be uncrewed so as to get both the FP of the mortar and that of the ex-
crewman?  
A. Yes, if the mortar is normally operational.  
This is a different situation than described in 28.7.  
27.1 A group just played a movement card sideways to change Group ID and is fired on by ordnance. Is the old (current) ID chit the 
one acquired, or is the new ID chit acquired (the one the group will become when a terrain card is played) that is acquired?  
A. Neither! Ordnance cannot gain or maintain acquisition on a moving group.  
27.1 Says "Only a mortar, IG, or AFV...qualify for Target Acquisition. Is the Japanese Grenade Launcher considered a Mortar for

--- PAGE 12 ---
acquisition?  
A. Yes.  
27.1 & 51.6 Can the two different guns of a Char B1 each acquire a different target and maintain acquisition while the other fires at a 
different group?  
A. No.  
27.2 & 28.43 
 An AFV loses acquisition when it becomes Buttoned Up 
 An AFV that is already Buttoned Up may gain acquisition 
 An AFV that goes from Buttoned Up to Crew Exposed does not lose acquisition  
*Add 28.32 The TEM of an AFVs current terrain does not affect fire versus the Morale and CE defense value of that AFV. The TEM 
of an AFVs current terrain does affect the fire strength of a hit against the Armor and Flank defense values of that AFV (EXC: Hull 
down; 28.92). The movement status of the defender does not alter the Fire Strength of a hit against AFV targets.  
*28.4 In the 2nd Paragraph, 2nd sentence, delete "also exceeds"; substitute "greater than or equal to".  
28.43 Does a FT AFV suffer a -1 to the Fire Strength of a FT attack if it has a -1 commander killed chit on it?  
A. Yes.  
28.46 Does this flank shot apply to non-ordnance shots when an AFV plays a Sideways Movement card?  
A. No.  
28.52-53 These rules never specifically state that a Bogged AFV's movement card (if one is in play) is discarded. Does a Bogged 
AFV stop moving?  
A. The AFV's movement card is removed upon entering terrain, before checking for Bog. If the AFV somehow BOGs while moving 
(i.e., by a wire discard), then yes, the move card is discarded.  
28.61 Can a Concealed card be played to aid the defense of an AFV or its crew against a non-ordnance attack?  
A. No.  
*28.7 EX Delete: "and a red 2 RNC would immobilize it." Substitute "or immobilize it (depending on the color of the next RNC 
drawn)."  
28.7 This rule and example are a bit confusing. I think that there are a number of typographical errors in the example (for instance 
"...they also have an inherent boxed 6 firepower 3..." The number 6 makes no sense in that statement, or I've completely missed 
something in the rules.  
A. Correct. Delete "6".  
When using inherent boxed firepower vs. an open-topped AFV (and also the flamethrower's boxed FP VS. any AFV) do you add the 
fire strength value of the fire card played to the RNC?  
A. Yes. The fire strength of the card is both the unboxed fire strength and boxed fire strength.  
28.7 Can infantry boxed firepower of 1 per man at Relative Range 5 be used against a closed top AFV?  
A. NO! The rule is explicitly labeled vs. Open-Topped AFVs.  
28.72 Would an AFV on both sides of an infantry group allow it to deduct 2 from the Fire Strength of any attack made against it?  
A. No.  
28.8 Once a man has infiltrated versus an AFV, does he have to play a Movement card or undergo a Morale Check in order to attack 
that AFV?  
A. No. Either a Morale Check or Movement card was required for the Infiltration attempt, but once infiltrated, the CC attack occurs 
immediately with no further requirements.  
28.81 Would an Open Topped AFV be considered CE (for table 28.81 purposes) even when pinned?  
A. No.  
28.81 Can an Open Topped AFV ever be Buttoned Up (i.e. does pinned = buttoned up for table 28.81 purposes)?  
A. No, the +3 for an OT-AFV applies.  
28.81 In table 28.81, for the AFV to get the -2 modifier for "adjacent, unpinned infantry at same range", does this mean that the

--- PAGE 13 ---
entire group must be unpinned or will one man suffice?  
A. Only one man is necessary to satisfy this condition.  
28.9 What effect does being Hull Down have on an Infantry Gun being fired on by non-ordnance weapons?  
A. None, other than the normal application of the terrain card's TEM.  
29 Can an AFV cancel an overrun attack after a concealed (or of even if no concealed) card is played?  
A. No.  
29.2 If an AFV has a functioning FT when doing an overrun attack, does the defender get their terrain modifier?  
A. No.  
29.2 Can a FT AFV (or any other AFV) malfunction on an overrun?  
A. Yes.  
29.5 After an AFV has overrun an opposite group and then moves through it, could it then play a sideways movement card to 
encircle it if there is a friendly adjacent group?  
A. No, rule 20.5, last sentence.  
 
*30.3 Note that an incorrect counter face was shown as the reverse side of the Panzerfaust marker. 
30.3 Do you need a fire card to fire a Panzerfaust? 
A: Yes.  
30.6 Is the rulebook correct in that an ATR IMPROVES its To Hit Frequency when it has Flanking Fire privileges? 
A. Yes. Note the "-1 Flanking Fire To Hit Modifier" noted on the ATR cards actually improves the To Hit # since a To Hit # of 1 is 
easier to hit than a To Hit # of 2. 
32.11 This rule states "A player may capture a prisoner by willingly deducting two from his CCV prior to the resolution of any CC 
attack." Nowhere does it state when to make the decision to attempt a capture. Does this mean that you can wait until you see the 
odds and then decide to make take prisoners? If you have 2 on 1, can you try to take the man prisoner, but if you lose, change to 
normal CC when attacking 1 on 1? 
A. No! Declarations to attempt to capture prisoners must be made when calculating CC values! That commitment remains throughout 
the Close Combat. If soldiers A and B attempt to capture enemy soldier Z in Close Combat and soldier A is killed in the first round, a 
second round is immediately fought, with B attempting to capture soldier Z. 
32.12, also 10.1 CLARIFICATION: In order to be eligible to capture prisoners through the Rout method (32.12) the capturing group 
must contain at least one unpinned personality card. 
32.12 & 16.42 By capturing a man and bringing him into a group, and then stopping in suitable terrain, does the attacker satisfy the 
Relative Range 5 requirement of the Victory Conditions, if, in so doing, it eliminates the only Relative Range 5 enemy group? 
A. Yes. Note, this rule is in effect to prevent a player from routing men to avoid victory by the opponent. 
*32.21 Insert after "firepower": "and CCV". 
33.1, also 6.53 The rule states a wound can occur when a man routs or when a KIA result occurs with an RNC that exactly matches 
the minimum KIA value. Take as an example PFC Fox, who has a Morale of 4 and a Panic of 5. Assume Fox is pinned, and an attack 
occurs with a Final Combat Resolution Number that equals 7. The card also has a "4" under the "7w" column and the card also has a 
"3" under the "0r" column, which under rule 6.53 means he is removed from play by Panic. What is the status of PFC Fox? 
A. PFC Fox is eliminated due to Panic, and is worth 2 victory points to his opponent. The wording of the rules take special care here, 
much like weapon malfunction. To summarize for a PC to be wounded: 
On his good order side, the Final Combat Resolution Number must equal his KIA value for there to be the possibility of a wound. 
On his Pinned, non-colored side, a Final Combat Resolution Number exactly equal to the KIA value (generally 9) always yields a 
possible wound. 
If the Final Combat Resolution is greater than or equal to the man's Panic value, but less than his KIA value there is also a possibility 
of a wound. However, the 0r column of the card must first be checked to determine if the man panics or routs. Only if the man Routs 
is there the possibility of a wound. Panic is only equivalent to a KIA for specific purposes. 
33.1 Can a man be wounded while voluntarily routing? 
A. No, but he can be killed. See rule 6.53. 
33.7 Exactly when during the turn do you check for wounded? At the end? At the start?

--- PAGE 14 ---
A. The first card of the first full turn of a new deck. 
Also, if you deplete the deck during the turn of a player with a wounded man, do you check that turn or the next? 
A. Next turn. 
34 & 25.1 How does an Infantry Gun repair? 
A. An IG is ordnance. Therefore, it repairs normally (19.3) using the Repair values on the "Malfunction Ordnance" marker; i.e. black 
0-6 for Repair, and red 6 for Remove.  
34 If an IG malfunctions and then becomes inoperative, is the IG card still in play? 
A. Yes. 
If so, can it still move normally? 
A. Yes, but note rules 34.2 and 34.7 
34.4 CLARIFICATION: 
An AFV with both a boxed and unboxed attack values may only attack the IG with its unboxed attack value (per 25.42) and, thus, the 
IG defends against such an attack with its boxed KIA defense values. 
Mortars and Artillery affect an IG's boxed defense values. 
IG's attack other IG's per 25.42 and 34.4. 
Ordnance without an unboxed effect number, and not meeting the conditions of 34.4 is resolved per 44.6. 
35 When reinforcements or random reinforcements include an ASL, and there is already an ASL in play, does this new ASL function 
as an "auxiliary" ASL, in case of the loss of the original SL or ASL? 
A. Yes. 
35 Reinforcements usually come in at Range Chit 0. If an enemy group has advanced to Range Chit 6, and has an opposing group in 
front of it, this creates a situation very similar to natural flanking fire and/or encirclement. Are reinforcements, entering in a sideways 
mode (and without the Flanking Movement card mentioned in 35.3) at Range 0 and BEHIND an adjacent group A or E, entitled to 
Flanking and/or Encirclement advantages? 
A. Flanking, yes; Encirclement, no. Encirclement, however, may occur in a future turn. 
35.2 Is the movement card played in a sideways mode or into the discard pile? 
A. Into the discard pile. 
36 A group is entrenched in Brush for a total TEM of -2. Wire is discarded on the group. The Entrenchment Chit says "NA if pinned 
or in Wire." What is the TEM for the Group? 
A. The TEM of the Group is -1. Brush is -1, Entrenched is -1, Wire is +1. The statement on the back of the entrenchment chit means 
not allowed (to entrench) if pinned or in wire, per the first sentence of 36.1. 36.2 specifies the conditions for removal of the 
Entrenchment chit. 
37.1 & 43.5 Can Partisans be considered Elite? 
A. No. 
38.3 & 38.5 Does a Group whose SL fired a starshell qualify as "Fired Last Turn"?  
A. No. 
38.3 If you play a fire card on a group at night, and after seeing the final modified Fire Strength of the attack decide not to fire, is the 
target group considered "fired on" to get the +1 modification for the purposes of an Observation Attempt? 
A. No, you decided not to fire! 
38.5 For starshell purposes, can the ASL take over the SL starshell capability when the SL has routed or is KIA? 
A. No. 
38.5 Starshells are stationary. If a Group has a Starshell placed on it, and the Group moves forward or backward, it is not illuminated 
by that Starshell. 
38.51 If a group that has a starshell on them plays a movement card and increases its range chit, what becomes of the starshell? What 
happens if a group has a starshell on them makes a lateral group transfer under the same circumstances? 
A. In both cases the Starshell stays at the former range chit and is marked with its own range chit. The group is still illuminated by it 
as are any other groups adjacent and at the same range as the starshell. 
38.7 What is meant by "observation being necessary for retrograde"?

--- PAGE 15 ---
A. It means a group cannot perform Retrograde (5.51) unless it has observed an enemy which satisfies the conditions to allow it to 
Retrograde. 
39.4 Do paratroops get the +1 firepower if multiple Fire cards are used, some of which have red RNC's? 
A. No. Note the 1 firepower is for unarmed paratroops only. It is not an additional 1 firepower for armed paratroops. 
*39.5 Delete: "printed German". 
39.7 The Morale values of Japanese troops and many nationalities' armor units conflict with the conditions of 39.7. How can this be 
resolved for DYO purposes? 
A. DYO pushes many game systems to their design limits and Up Front is no exception. Where armor is concerned, comply with the 
DYO point cost modifications, and ignore the Morale value contradictions - vehicles retain their printed Morale values (this is in 
keeping with the designer's stated rationale behind the performance of armor crews in the Designer's Notes). 
As for troops, when using "Second Line" forces, limit your SL and ASL purchases to the lowest Morale representatives available for 
that nationality which will comply with the DYO restrictions. Likewise, "Elites" should also be limited to the highest-Morale leaders 
for that nationality, while complying with DYO restrictions. 
Thus, the Japanese may only use Sgt. Kodu (#21) for "Second Line" DYO forces; the Italians must use Sgt. Capone (#21) for 
"Elites". Use of either nation's available Corporals for ASLs is unaffected. 
*Delete original 41.4 entirely. The original 41.41 became 41.4. A new 41.41 was added as follows: "Fire into a different game must 
be resolved before attacks from that same game are resolved against the same target." 
42.42 Can a personality with Morale and Panic values of 7 continue to accumulate Elan points to negate a reduction of his 
Morale/Panic values caused by Rout? 
A. No. 
42.6 & 42.7 If an opposing group fires on a withdrawing group and pins one or more members, is the withdrawing group still able to 
complete its withdrawal by playing a Terrain card? 
A. Yes, but the pinned man would not be eligible for Elan Points for surviving the game unpinned. 
42.72 When an ASL has taken over the squad as per 15.3, is he capable of deciding to pursue? 
A. Yes. 
43.0 May Partisans ever receive armor support? 
A. No. 
43.2 Does the statement "DYO purchases must include a SL and ASL" apply to all DYO games? 
A. No, its DYO. 
43.7 Is the purchase cost of Secondary Weapons 15% more for Elite Troops and 15% less for Second Line Troops? 
A. Yes. 
44.6 Change the last sentence to read: ". . . modifiers for wire, hill, or movement) prior to the draw of the RNC to determine its Final 
Strength." 
44.8 Does a British FT get the Firepower bonus when attacking infantry by itself? 
A. Yes. 
44.8 Does a British FT get the Firepower bonus when attacking an AFV's armored defense values? 
A. Yes. 
44.9 This rule states that the British and (via exception) Japanese non-crew served LMGs can only double its firepower with the 
black RNC Hero card, thus implying that the American BAR can use either Hero card. Specifically "This rule cannot be used for 
other nationalities (EXC: Japanese)." However, rule 50.6 (DESERT WAR) states "Like all LMGs in the game which are not 
considered a crew-served weapon, a Hero card can be used to double the LMG's firepower only if the Hero card is also a black 
RNC." Which rule is correct (as they contradict each other), and how is the BAR handled?  
A. Both are; nor do they contradict. The BAR is not considered to be an LMG. Either hero card may be used to double its firepower.  
CLARIFICATION: 
The American BAR may use both Hero cards, and is not considered an LMG. 
The British, French, Italian & Japanese LMG ‘s may only use the Black Hero card. 
The German & Russian LMG’s may use both Hero cards, but doubles its bracketed value.

--- PAGE 16 ---
45.11 Can the Japanese still discard if they attempt to infiltrate one man (only) using a movement card for the attempt (so as not to 
take a morale check)? 
A. Yes. 
45.11 Can the Japanese still discard if the attempt to infiltrate two (or more) men, all using movement cards? 
A. Yes. 
45.11 Can the Japanese still discard if the attempt to infiltrate two or more men and one or more make morale checks while others 
use movement cards? 
A. No. 
45.4 Insert after the third sentence: "However, Banzai may not be declared against an enemy group that is blocked at the time the 
Banzai is declared." 
EXAMPLE: 
BLACK 
RED 
A[3] 
A[0] 
B[0] 
B[0] 
The Japanese player is the red troops. Japanese group A may not declare Banzai versus Enemy group B, because direct movement by 
Japanese group A to relative range 5 with Enemy group B is blocked by Enemy Group A.  
45.4 If a group on a Wire card declares Banzai, must they remove the Wire card with their next played Movement card or may they 
ignore the Wire and move forward? 
A. Their next Movement card play must be to remove the Wire. 
45.4 When a Banzai attack is declared, are crewed served weapons uncrewed at that time?  
A. Yes.  
Infiltration (20.23) requires loss of crewing, but CC doesn't. If uncrewed I assume then that Heavy Weapons (45.6) are left behind?.  
A. Correct.  
45.4 Is the initial sideways Movement card of the Banzai eligible for Terrain placement by an opponent? 
A. Yes. 
45.4 
SITUATION: British Group D is at Range Chit 2, stationary in open ground with a wire card on them. Japanese Group D is at Range 
Chit 2, and had declared a Banzai the turn before. This turn the Japanese player plays a movement card to Range Chit 3 (Relative 
Range 5 with the British group). The British on their turn discard a Stream on Japanese Group D. The Japanese then attack in Close 
Combat from the Stream and fail to defeat all of the British in Group D. 
If the British counterattack, are the Japanese penalized for being in a stream, or is the modifier for "Attacking in CC" only. 
A. Yes, the are penalized. 
Are the modifiers for Stream, Wire and Marsh in this situation for the attacker only? 
A. No, the modifiers apply to both sides. 
In the above situation, if the Japanese defeat all the British in the next turn, can they take over the British terrain (Open Ground with 
Wire on it)? 
A. Yes. 
CLARIFICATION: Rule 20.8 should be modified to say, "... is subject to capture by any group currently infiltrating (or Japanese 
Banzaiing) that..." 
45.422 May a Japanese man who is the sole survivor of a Banzai Group that has reached Relative Range 5 elect to use a Demo 
Charge that he possesses, instead of attacking in CC? 
A. No. 
What if there are other men in the group, would he have the option of using it? 
A. No. 
45.47 The reference to 45.243' should be to 45.423'. 
45.47 Do the men in the target group of a Banzai attack, on their first turn after the first Close Combat by the Banzai group, need to 
play a movement card or pass a morale check to perform Close Combat versus the Banzai group? 
A. No.  
45.6 This rule states that "heavy" weapons must be crewed in order to play a movement card on that group for any reason, else the

--- PAGE 17 ---
weapon must be abandonment. If a weapon is "abandoned" but the group does not leave its location (e.g. the movement card was to 
remove wire) is the weapon still available for acquisition? 
A. No (18.4).  
If a group is in the act of moving and a heavy weapon becomes uncrewed (e.g. the crewman is killed) can they still go to terrain w/o 
crewing the weapon? 
A. Yes, but the weapon is removed. 
45.9 & 46.2 Are there different Unit Types for Marines?  
A. No.  
46.4 CHANGE: Previous errata deleted. Second sentence of rule should read, "This rule also applies to any nationality and scenario 
with any combination of two or more BARs/LMGs/MMGs on the same side as such concentration would be unrealistic." 
47.2 This rule can be misinterpreted as regards the status of Woods cards in a Jungle scenario. In the fifth line, after "Woods card" 
(the parenthetical reference to "extremely dense jungle"), the word "jungle" should be capitalized, denoting a new type of terrain 
card, a -3 Woods (Buildings) card. In Jungle scenarios, all -2 Buildings cards are considered to be Woods cards as well. 
In addition, the following sentence should be inserted at the end of Rule 47.2, after "in a Jungle scenario.": 
In any Jungle scenario, all Woods cards of any rating, whether printed -2 Woods cards, -2 Buildings cards serving as Woods, or -3 
Buildings cards serving as Jungle, are considered to be "Jungle" cards for all purposes, especially including calculation of Aggressive 
Action Victory Points or determination of scenario-specific victory conditions. 
48.1 It appears that random reinforcements cost 50 points no matter which deck you purchase them for. Is this correct?  
A. No, normal deck multipliers apply. 
48.2 If random reinforcements are purchased for the last deck of the game, there is no "free" check for Random Reinforcements at 
the shuffle of a deck in which the player was eligible for Random Reinforcements. Is this correct? 
A. This is correct. 
If so, shouldn't there be a discount for not having the best chance for reinforcements available? 
A. No, that's the price you pay for buying them so late in the game. 
48.2 In playing a scenario where Random Reinforcements are available throughout the entire game, a fire attack is made near the end 
of the first deck. Before the deck ends, a black 6 RNC is drawn and then the deck runs out with a few men left in the fire attack 
resolution. Is the player with Random Reinforcements now qualified for 2 Random Reinforcement attempts? 
A. Yes. 
Can they be made during one turn? 
A. Yes, all Random Reinforcement checks must be made on the next turn (as in the above situation) or ALL opportunity is lost for 
receiving Random Reinforcements. 
Does this apply if two or even three black 6 RNCs are drawn during that attack? 
A. Yes, and if multiple reinforcements appear, they are combined into one reinforcing group. 
48.32 If all the men called for by the Random Reinforcement Table are already in the game, can you use a man that is an SL (or an 
ASL)? 
A. Yes, and that man could function as the SL if all of the original SL/ASL in the scenario are eliminated. 
48.33 Do you have to bring in Random Reinforcements into play in the order in which they were obtained? 
A. Yes. 
50.41 Add to 3rd sentence after "occurs": "at the end of a turn". Add to 4th sentence after "move": "(nor play terrain)". Add: 
"(including by snipers)" after "fired upon". 
 
*ACTION CARDS: 
Change the black 7' under column 9' to a black 1' on card #7. 
 
The Marsh cards should have a TEM of -1, not +1. 
 
All Movement cards with black RNC incorrectly refer to a shift of 2 to the left for an infiltration attempt. This reference should be 2 to 
the right. Cards #1-3, 5-13, 18, 158 and 159 are affected. 
 
*COUNTERS 
Two of the ATMM counters contain a misprint on the reverse side they should read "6-0 is EL"; not "1-6 is EL". 
 
PERSONNEL CARDS:

--- PAGE 18 ---
British: The unpinned CCV value of PFC Shaw (#15) should be 7/4, and his pinned values should be 3/0. 
 
French: The unpinned CCV for Pvt. Rochard (#17) should be 10/5; his pinned values should be 6/1.  
 
German:  
- *German #23 should be a 'SL' not an 'ASL'. 
- *German #38 CE-side middle column should be labeled "FT FP"; not "To Hit #". 
- The pinned CCV of Pvt. Klapp (#27) should be 2/-2, instead of the printed 2/-1. 
 
Italians:  
- The Personality card and the weapons chit for the Italian ATR have different values. Use the values on the Personality card, but 
transpose the sets of numbers, using the bracketed numbers for crew-served values, and the unbracketed numbers for uncrewed status. 
- PFC Napoli (#9) should have an unpinned CCV of 4/3, and a pinned CCV of 0/-1.  
- The pinned CCV of PFC Leone (#26) should be -2/-1. 
 
Japanese:  
- Both the unpinned and pinned CCV of Sgt. Okimoto (#1) are misprinted. His unpinned values should be 11/6; his pinned values 7/2.  
- The pinned and CE flank armor values of #33 differ. The correct CE flank armor values are i: -1/s: 0/K: 1. 
- The Italian and Japanese ATRs are crew-served weapons. Is there any loss of effectiveness for the firepower aspect of these weapons 
if they are uncrewed?  
A. No. 
- Do they get the 1 firepower factor whether or not they are crewed?  
A. Yes.  
 
AFVs: 
- *American #38 should read "CE:9" on the front; not "Button Up". 
- British AFV #34 should have its name underlined. 
- British AFV #40's CE- side "0" effect number should be red.  
- British #42 should be Sexton (i.e. underlined). 
- Japanese #35 should be Type 1 SP (i.e. underlined). 
 
SCENARIOS 
- *Replace German #16 in Scenarios B & D with #22. Replace German #16 in C with #9. 
- Scenario K: The Elite Player may NOT win by Victory Points in the second half of the scenario. 
- Scenario V has a misprint for the Germans (attacking), as published in the original Banzai rulebook. They should have only 1 LMG; 
substitute # 8 for #12 . 
- Scenario W: Are any Buildings cards allowed other than those the defender sets up in? 
A. No! All Buildings cards are discarded as they appear, as per the normal rules (16.1 and EXAMPLE), as are those the defender sets 
up in, once he leaves them. 
- The attacking American squad given for Scenario X should have a point value of 302, not 324  
(The last two errors were corrected in the charts appearing in the Desert War rulebook).  
 
DESERT WAR OOB Chart Errors:  
- Italian #2 is armed with a Rifle, not a Machine Pistol. 
- Japanese #19 is armed with an MP. 
- There is an erroneous entry for a DC for the Japanese in Scenario La. 
- United States personality card #12 was omitted off the OOB for Scenario Pa. 
 
NOTES: 
- Flamethrowers: Sources indicate the Soviet Flamethrower is not an ROKS-2, as it is labeled. Instead it is an ROKS-3. 
- The graphic for the French flamethrower (the "Lanceflammes P.4") is also incorrect: the weapon had only a single fuel tank, and a 
very different nozzle.