--- PAGE 1 ---
From: http://www.pyro.net/~bankler/rev_upfront.html and http://www.panix.com/~sos/bc/upfront.html 
A Beginner's Guide 
Up Front is the card game (and 
some say superior) version of 
Squad Leader/Advanced Squad 
Leader. Basically, you control a 
squad of infantry in WWII. Maybe 
a tank or infantry gun, too.  
Here's how the game works. Each 
player lays out a set of cards 
representing his men. One card, 
One Man. You may set up in 2-4 
groups of 2-10 men. The cards are double sided, one side 
being an 'active' man, the other side represents the man 
when he's pinned (ducking, afraid, what have you). The 
main component, though, is the action deck of 162 cards.  
These cards represent the basic "game engine" and are 
used to perform actions such as:  Move, Rally, Fire, 
Terrain 
 
(Buildings, 
Hills, 
Streams, 
etc), 
Hide 
(Concealment), and many more (Snipers, Smoke, Wire...).  
Yes, the map is built by the play of terrain cards as the 
game progresses… 
As well, instead of dice, these cards are used to generate 
random numbers to determine the effects of fire/rally/etc.  
Each card includes a bell curve distributed random 
number from –6 to +6 (the RNC), and an evenly 
distributed random position numbers from 1-n, where n is 
1-10 (the RPC).  Each number is again, red or black. The 
numbers in the 1 column are mainly red, getting a higher 
percentage of black numbers as you move to the right.  
A turn is pretty simple. You have a hand of cards, and can 
take one action per group. So a group could move, or fire, 
or rally (get pinned people back to active) as the three 
basic actions. But there are plenty of other actions. 
Transfer people from one group to another, fix a broken 
weapon, entrench, infiltrate a nearby enemy group, and 
what have you. Then you may get to discard cards (each 
nation has it's own rules for hand size and discarding), 
then you replenish.   The objective of the game depends 
on the scenario – but it is generally simple – close with 
and engage the enemy!! 
So, what's good about this game?  It is quick playing, and 
it accurately represents “The Fog of War” 
Mr. Allen discusses this in his designer notes (which you 
should read).  He read many, many interviews of actual 
WWII front-line soldiers of many nationalities, and was 
struck by some common themes that weren't represented 
in any of the wargames he was aware of. For example, 
lack of information about the nature of the terrain over a 
hill or around a corner or even beyond a hedge was very 
nerve-wracking for soldiers. Even excellent maps just 
don't have the level of detail a soldier would love to have: 
is there a ditch past that hedge, which might be hiding an 
enemy machine gun? Just how many houses are down 
that next side street? What's beyond that clump of woods? 
And so on. In a traditional wargame, both players see the 
whole map of the terrain laid out in advance, and plan 
their moves accordingly. In real life, you couldn't do that.  
And you can't in Up Front.  
So when you move out of a safe Terrain, you may or may 
not know what lies ahead. You may have a Building card 
in your hand, so you think your group is moving to that 
building they can see. But your opponent might discard a 
Stream card onto your group - they couldn't see there was 
a stream in the way!  
Another thing Mr. Allen discovered about WWII: morale 
and firing. In the movies - and most wargames - you have 
no trouble firing away at the enemy. You point to your 
unit, say, "They're shooting at that unit," and roll the dice.  
However, Mr. Allen found that only about 20% of 
soldiers actually fired their weapons in a squad-level 
encounter! The Action deck has about 25% Fire cards to 
represent this. Sometimes you just don't have a Fire card - 
this is one of those times you can't get your squad to stick 
their heads up over the wall and actually shoot at the 
enemy ...  
Likewise, getting your troops to move forward into 
hostile fire wasn't always easy. So those times you don't 
have a Movement card in your hand reflect a lot of reality 
... Of course, in most wargames, you can move all your 
units each turn, blithely forward into slaughter, if you 
want. Not in reality; not in Up Front.  
Yet the game simulates the standard squad practice of 
"Bound and Overwatch" much more realistically than any 
other game I know of. Assuming you can get the cards 
(i.e., assuming you can get your troops to behave the way 
they've been trained...) one group lays down suppressive 
fire while another advances. Then the roles are reversed. 
Elegantly done!  
A "pinned" result is the most common adverse Fire effect 
in Up Front. This also models reality. When enemy 
bullets started flying near the average soldier's head, he 
tended to hit the dirt, probably with a few choice words. 
It'd have to be pretty quiet for a while before he'd risk 
sticking his head up again, no matter what his squad 
leader is yelling at him. Hence, those times when you just 
can't get a Rally card to get your troop moving or firing 
again ...  
In addition to the actual equipment on the Personality 
cards, the Action card hand size and discard capabilities 
are 
the 
main 
distinctions 
between 
the 
different 
nationalities. As with any nationality distinctions, they are 
oversimplified, but they all make sense.  
 
Up Front is truly a well-designed 
and thoroughly thought-out game.   
Give this unique classic a try!!! 
A game usually takes only an hour 
or less to play.