--- PAGE 1 [OCR] ---
ND
ARMORED
CALVARY
REGIMENT

--- PAGE 2 [OCR] ---
CREDFTS
Writing
Jales D. Long
Etitorial Staft
Eeito-f-Chiet
I.. Ross Bahcoek Il
Sery' errfern
Domna Ippollito
Jinn Musscr
C. R. Green
Kent Siult
Protuctioll Statt
Daa Ktscn
Pmett Wne!
Jeff Laubenstein
Tua Galeagher
Han7.0
Jefr Laubenstein
Alln Nunis
Sieve Venlers
Joel Biske
Jit Nelsuri

--- PAGE 3 [OCR] ---
000000000000000000
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
SCENARIOS
24
How to Use the Scenarios
Nowhere to Run
Hold That Line
26
SECOND ARMORED CAVALRY
Fourth and Long
28
REGIMENT
Desperate Times
30
Brief History
Doing Dirt
Baufrin Influence
Pass in Review
34
The Snow Plague
Front and Center
36
The KessRith
Sharp as a Viper's Tooth
38
Terran Overlord Government
To the Rescue
40
Caesar's Folly
Welcoming Committee
42
Current Events
Acid Test
44
Organization
Snake Pit
46
Regimental Traditions
SELECTED UNITS
10
A Troop, First Sguadron
10
E Company, First Squadron
Second Howitzer Battery,
Second Sguadron
12
Headquarters Troop,
Third Squadron
13
S Troop, Fourth Squadron
14
SELECTED PERSONNEL
15
Andrew Armand Lombard
16
Arlish Hallaene
18
EQUIPMENT
20
Augustus
20
Labienus
21
Pedden
22
Seeker
23

--- PAGE 4 [OCR] ---
A. - 聚导

--- PAGE 5 [OCR] ---
INTRODVCTION
The Second Armored Cavalry Regiment may be Mankind's oldest army unit still in
existence. Early in the unit's history, it acquired a reputation for toughness, especially when
on the defensive or when faced with overwhelming odds. Though only auxilia-sized, the
regiment has retained its high profile.
Tradition plays an important part in the lives of the tankers of the Second. They consider
themselves to be the military heart of Shannedam County, and they may be right. Command-
ers on both sides have noted that the appearance of the Second is one of the most heartening
sights a soldier can see because the Second will attract the atlention of the entire county.
Because of this status, the unit is one of the most traveled in the area. The unit has been
transfered out of the county only rarely, but it is commonly moved from planet to planet
within the county. This policy has placed the unit in almost every kind of action on every
contested planet.
HOW TO USE THE SCENARIOS
Each of the twelve scenarios recreates a battle or encounter that involved the Second
Armored Cavalry. The scenario rules include all information necessary to understand the
game situation and to play it out. Each scenario opens with a firsthand account by one of the
by a brief discussion of the battle's historical context.
The Game Set-Up section provides whatever special game information is needed to play
the scenario, including how to lay out the mapsheets and which special terrain features exist.
Attacker and Defender forces for each scenario are described in detail. This information
includes damage, problems, or special abilities of any vehicles at the start of the battle. Also
noted is each vehicle's starting position on the map, or where and when it enters if the scenario
calls for it to arrive after the start of the action. All vehicle statistics can be found in the
Centurion Vehicle Briefing.
The Special Rules section covers any additional rules that may be required to play the
scenario. These advanced rules should be used in conjunction with the basic Centurion rules.
The Victory Conditions describe the conditions under which the scenario ends. It should
be very unlikely that the scenario continues until one side is completely destroyed. The
Victory Conditions list special objectives for each side. These special objectives will often
be more important than the destruction of the opposing side's vehicles. To discover the
winner, divide the higher point total by the lower point total and consult the Victory Table
on Page 47 of the Centurion rule book.

--- PAGE 6 [OCR] ---
SECOND ARMORED CAVALRY REGIMENT
BRIFEF HISTORY
families and support equipment were transferred to the planel Shan-
nedam. To this day. the planet. now known as Defiance. remains the
The Second Armored Cavalry
homewarld for the Second Armored Cavalry.
Regimcnt claims to be the oldest com-
One of the first duties of the Second was to help integrate the Baufrin
hat unit serving mankind. Its troopers
and Human cultures. Shannedam became an increasingly popular planet
ate steeped in the ttadition af their an-
for Human and Baufrin traders. More and more Baufrin colonists arrived
cestors. and they are proud almost to the
in ihe area, and the Second accepted its first Baufrin volunteers in 3013.
point of insubordination. Thaugh not a
This landmark move virtually ended Human-Baufrin conflict on Shanl-
large unit, thc Second has a list of
nedam and the surrounding planets. Soon, other military units began to
achievements that rivals any legion's.
incorporate Baufrin volunteers. This was when the unit reorganized to
These successes have produced the
include some Baufrin concepts, For a unit the size of a regiment, the
independence and ccky attitude so pervasive in the uni.
Baufrin organization worked very well. By the end of the century.
The ancienl roxs of the Secund reach back to a province known ls
Hunans and Baufrin had constructed a broad and lasting peace.
the Lniled Siates of America, a former political division of Terra. The
leiaders of this district fonined the unit to help quell an uprising by some
THE SNOW PLAGLE
members of the indigenous population. Early records are incomplete, but
With a genera peacc. the Second assuned more duties relating to the
the unit apparently met or exceeded every expectation. As the decades
security of the people of Shannedam. Pirates, warlords, and organized
passed. the unit traveled througlhaut Terra. It participated in numerous
crinninal bands were commonplace, mainly because the govemment was
actions., first serving local rulers, then the planetary governnent.
so far uway. A: the only garriston on the planet and the only government
As Mankind sought the stars, numerous military teams went into the
unit within the district, the Second Armored Cavalry began to live up to
reaches of space. but the Second Arnmored Cavalry never left Terra. As
is reputation. Deployed in Troops, members of the Second sought out and
unit after unit left for the stars. the Second remained on T'erra until
destroyed these thrcats. Although rarely engaged in a standing battle, the
Mankind came into contact with the Baufrin.
unit fought hundreds of skirmishes, seeing action on every planet in the
district. During this time, members began wearing the distinctive yellow
BALFRIN INFLUENCE
scarf and gloves. now so common. The blue "2" on the back of the scarf
By the year 3000. Mankind had developed a sizable star empire.
reminded the civilians that the Second was protecting them. All vehicles
Human colonies doted numerous solar systems, Humans had encoun-
mounted a blue "2" on a yellow penriant on the whip antenna.
tered a number of alien races, including the Huldice, the Lungdo, and the
In the year 5000, the Snow Plague hit almost every Hunan and
Hivers, but the Baufrin represented a special challenge. Already in con-
Naram planet in both empires, It was the most destructive force ever seen
flict with the Hivers, Mankind drew on all of its reserve units to deal with
by either people. Within 20 years. half of Humanity was killed. By the
the Baufrin.
year 5034, fully 80 percent of Mankind lay dead. Almost no planets
When man discovered these creatures, his intolerance and ethnocen-
escaped. Terra suffered heavily, despite a strict guarantine procedure. The
trism quickly got the hetter of him, Early contacts turned to skirmishes.
military command chain shattered, leaving every unit to fend for itself.
The Second wenl lo the planet of Shannedam as relations between
The troopers of ihe Second set about ensuring the unit's survival.
Hurmans and Baufrin stayed just below the level of all-out war. It was a
Colonel Ishoru, the unir commander, quickly dispersed the unit
lime of discovery for the unit. New tactics were devised, and equipment
among the planets of the district. Squadrons were grouped into four
was upgraded bhy local armorers. After months of hard work, it seemed
general areas, and the Troops were scattered as widely as possible. The
that the unit would be ready to face any threat on the planet. Expectantly.
Troop Captains were used to independent action and were weli-versed in
thc troopcrs waited at their stations, hoping for the chance to use their
field operations. Direct contact with other Troops was strictly prohibited.
skills, but praying they would nol have to fight the seemingly peaceful
From the year S000 to 5012. no T'roop of the Second operated on the same
Baufrin.
contincnt as another, Captains carried the quarantine even further. As a
The diplomats of Terra were not idle during this time. They located
result, half the unit survived the plague, Only the Second Squadron was
and contacted representatives of the Baufrin race. which was difficult
destroyed. In mernory. members of the rehuilt Second Squadron always
because ihe Baufrin shy away from organizations larger than a family.
circle the "2" on their scarfs and pennants. By the year 5013., the plague
The Baufrin representatives, called Independent Elders. signed a ireaty
had run its course on Shannedam and the surrounding planets. The
with Terra in 30t0.
Second, with its Baufrin troopers and surviving Humans and Naram, led
The unit's commander. Colonel Methius Jeffries, petitioned the
the relief efforts. T'he unit saved countless lives, preserving the human
Grand General to stay on the planet Shannedam, Jeffries argued that the
colony on Shannedam.
presence of the Second would protect the colonists and encourage more
betlers lo come to thc area. Jeffries'requesl was accepted, and the tankers'

--- PAGE 7 [OCR] ---
THE KESSRITH
The peace accords did not truly settle matters between the Second
and the KessRith. Though the Second readily accepted the peace, it stead-
With the devastation of the Snow Plague. Mankind spent most of its
fastly refused to allow a KessRith into the unit. This policy does not en-
energy attempting to survive. The people of every planet tried to take care
...
of themselves. In such a weakened state, they were easy targets for the
dear the unit to diplomats on either side of the KessRith border, but the
KessRith, one of the most aggressive races in the galaxy.
Grand Duke has upheld the Second's refusal on six occasions.
Fifteen years after the Snow Plague began, the KessRith were con-
TERRAN OVERLORD GOVERNMENT
testing almost every planet in Shannedam District. including Shannedam
itself. The district governor, under advice from his military commanders.
ordered the planet evacuated. Spaceports teemed with refugees fleeing
The appearance of TOG and the arrival of the Renegade Legions
the planet, as the KessRith grew more powerful, The defenders of Shan-
radically changed Jife in the county, In the year 6682, more than 300,000
nedam. as ever. were the men and women of the Second ACR.
legions artived in the Commonwealth, fleeing TOG tyranny.
For seven months. they faught to protect those who
The TOG defeat of several key KessRith garrison
had not yet left. Finally. in the year 5028. the
worlds, most otably Durmella in 6679, had
Second ACR was evacuated on the last ship
forced the KessRith back and allowed TOG
to leave the planet. Though the planet
to search for new foes. Still angry about
fell, the tankers knew the Second
the separate peace agreement gained
would return. It took more than
by the Baufrin a century earlier,
I500 years, but they were right.
TOG's increasingly evil empire
From the year 5028 to the
looked for new worlds to
year 6578. the Second fought
congquer. When the Rene-
all akng the shrinking bor-
gade Legions received
der. The tactics they
shelter within the Com-
leamed fighting bundits
monwealth, old hatreds
and pirates were passed
flared. TOG prepared
lothe othermembersof
for another war, this
their unit. and the Sec-
time against Humans.
ond achieved a standoff
Forty years later, the
with the KessRith. The
war began. TOG
fighting was always
forces attacked and
fierce, but the tankers
subsequently
de.
refused t abandon their
stroyed the Common-
gal, the return to Shan-
wealth and Renegade
nedam, Generations of
defenders
of
the
tankers were born, fought.
Potsdam and Alesia
and died without seeing the
Grand Dukedoms. Over
planet they fought so hard to
the next nine decades, TOG
regain. Thcir dedication was
forces pushed ever closer to
finally rewarded, however.
Shannedam, beginning their
when. on June 23. 6578, they re-
attack on Shannedam County in
turned to Shannedam to fight the
68ll with the taking of Ancona.
KessRith on the tankers'home soil.
Striking from Keserdal County, TOG
[n 65x2. the Baufrin leader Suphra
bypassed the nearer planets of Iol, Olisipio,
Decla negotiated a separate peace agreement be-
Zama, and Ve'Fros. The expected targer of
tween the resistance, called the Commonwealth, and
Thapsus was hit only as a diversion, with their forces
the KesRith. Despite heated warnings and threats by Terra's
outflanked and suffering from the loss of one of the major
ruler, Alexander Trajan, who had supplied the Baufrin-Human resistanice
planets of the county, the Commonwealth and Renegade Legions had to
in Shannedam County, Suphra Decla went ahead with the treaty, The
revise their entire county defense system. The Second was puiled back
populace went about the business of setting up a new government. The
from duty on Mysia and was restationed on the capital.
new Commonwealth was divided into 2l Grand Dukedoms. 'The planet
The last 19 years have been difficult for the people of the county.
of Shannedam was chosen as the seat of the newly proclaimed Alaric
After Anconla, other planets fell to the might of TOG. Olisipio fell in 68 12;
Mareh Grand Dukedom, The Shannedam District was slightly redefined
Mysia and Thapsus in 68 14. Over the next 15 years, the TOG war machine
and renamed Shannedam County. The Second Armored Cavalry Regi-
seemed to be everywhere. The Second saw action on many different
ment was selected as the oily standing military unit to be placed on the
planets, using its mobility to slow the TOG advance.
planet of Shannedam. The unit's motto. "Always ready," was usuaily
restaled as "Always ready to defend our home."

--- PAGE 8 [OCR] ---
CAESAR'S FOLLY
T'roops have an almost universal organization, with one Headquar-
TOG's ability to take Ancona so quickly menaced Shannedam. but
ters Platoon, two Arrmor Platoons, and one Armored Infantry Platoon. The
the invaders did nor make a direct assault on the planet until 6829. In the
size of the vehicles varies according to the missions of the Troop and its
spring of that year, the invaders landed on the planet Syriph XX., with two
general weighi. The mainstay of the regiment is the Wolverine Light Gray
fuil legions blundering into the Renegade staging area. Also on the planet
Tank. Comprising more than half of the combat vehicles of the regiment.
was the Second Arrmored Cavalry Regiment, temporarily attached to the
these fast gravs give the regiment an excellent response time and a
87 I st Renegade Srrike Legion (The KessRith Tamers). The battle began
mobility rarely matehed by the TOG legions it faces. This mobility is
the day of the landing, with the Second in the thick of the fighting. Hit-
gained at the expense of firepower, but the members of the regiment have
and-run attacks by the Second kept the enemny off balance. while the
spent years perfecting their techniques. A hit-and-run style of warfare is
assaulrs of the Strike Legion began to crumble the TOG position. In such
their forte. and few can match them.
a desperate situation, the invaders began to cal Syriph XX Caesar's Folly.
Within each Troop, the Headquarters Platoon handles al supply.
A golden opportuniry presented itself on Caesar's Folly, as the planet
comtnunications, and maintenance duties. The troop commander nor-
was renamed, when the air support wing of the 816th TOG Strike Legion
mally leads from a Wolverine of the Second Plaroon or coordinales his
was lured away from its legion. Moving quickly, centuries and troops
unit's movements from the communications vehicle of the Headquarters
from the 871st Renegade Strike Legion and the Second ACR overtan the
Platoon. Call letters identify each vehicle. The troop letter is always first.
fighter bases and destroyed the 816th's supply areas, When the fighters
followed by the plaloon numher. then the vehicle number. The second
returned. they discovered that their bases were destroyed and their
grav of Third Platoon, B Troop is called. for example. B32.
supplies were gone, With no supplies or bases, the fighters were quartered
Armored Infantry Platoons. when present, are always assigned to the
with the carrier wings of the Imperial Navy, helpless to assist their
Third Platoon. The platoon commander, a Lieutenant. controls the ve-
comrades on the ground.
hicles. The infantry squads are deployed by the Troop Captain under the
The Renegade forces wasted n> time in attacking the 8l6th. De-
command of a Platoon Leader.
prjved of their air cover for at least a few weeks, the &16th was ripe for the
picking. The 871st isolated the 816th from its sister unit., the 9865th
REGIMENTAL TRADITIONS
[nfantry Legion, and began destroying every enemy century within the
trap. The Second was stationed between the two TOG legions to block any
The first thing one notices when dealing with members of the
Telief effort by the infantry legion, No match for the 9865th in numbers
regiment is their uniforn, The uniform is navy blue with yellow piping
alone, the Second fought a delaying action under the command of Colonel
along the pants leg. A jacket is always worn, and yellow gloves are either
Lombard. The Second held its defenisive lines for a vital week, while the
worn or carried folded over the belt, Squadrun and platoon numbers are
87t st crushed the 816th, Reduced in size by more than S0 percent, the
worn on the right sleeve, and the regimental number is worn on the left.
Second was rotated off Caesar's Folly for rest and resupply.
The yellow scarf is knotted in front and contains only the regimental
number on back. Tankers wear black boots with silver spurs, a reninder
CURRENT EVENTS
of the days when horse cavalry wore spurs. Infantry uniforms are similar.
The Second was rotated off active duty for only eleven months. After
except for the addition of a foamed aluminum and ceramic back and breast
being resupplied on the planet Mala, the Second went to Ku Crassus,
plate, which is worn over the shir. Each member of the regiment carries
where the I99th Renegate Strike Legion was stalemated with the better-
a Westron 12mm caseless sidearm. Infantry troops carry an additional
supplied 324lst Strike Legion. Although listed as an attached unit of the
firearm, with the type depending on their duty. A saber is also added to the
Iy9th Strike, the Second is given almost free reign to conduct actions
dress uniform.
within its area.
The jargon of the tankers seems to come from another time. All
members of the regiment are called troopers. Vehiele crews are also called
ORGANIZATION
tankers, and infantrymen are sometimes called boys, dogs, or dog soldiers
to refleci their perceived lower status. Only other members of the regi-
ment may use these terms for the infaniry, however. It is a grave insult for
The Second Armored Cavalry Regiment is organized on the Baufrin
an outsider to call any member by these nanes, The regimental com-
model, with four Squadrons of seven Troops., The designations of the
mander is always called "the Old Man," no malter whal the commander's
Second follow the ancient Cavalry standard of platoons: Troops instead
gender or race.
of Centuries, Squadrons instead of Cohorts, and a Regiment instead of a
The unit eontains only Humans, Naram, and Baufrin. No other races
Manus. Each squadron is organized identically. with a headquarters
are recruited, and no others have ever been accepted. .KessRith are
Troop, one howitzer batrery, three Troops of light grav armor, one Troop
particularly disliked by the regiment as a whole. Members of all three
of medium grav armor, and one troop of heavy grav armor, called a
races have been promoted to regimental canmander at various times
Company instead of a Troop.
during the unit's history. Members of the unit have heen know to
disohey, or ignore, commands frotn other legion officers. Although dealt
with harshly, the practice of recognizing only superiar officers within the
regiment remains.

--- PAGE 9 [OCR] ---
9000090000000000
60000000006000000
HQ
MP

--- PAGE 10 [OCR] ---
SELECTED UNITS
A TROOP, FIRST SOUADRON, SECOND ACR
Captain Nath'al Benenez
Commarder, A Troop
Light Grav Armored Troop
Leadership: 5
Captain Benene? has been in command of A Troop for three years.
Headguarters Platoon
the longest term for a commander in recent history. The Captain was born
I Supply Vehicle
and raised in the Naram Republic but maintains that he is Human. As is
I Maintenance Vehicle
the Naram custom, Benenez wears his dark hair very long.
I Recovery Vehicle
Because the A Troop commander is required to act as the regimental-
I Woiverine Light Grav Tank
media liaison officer, his time is split berween combat duty and public
First Light Armored Platoon
relations. An experienced combat soldier, he grudgingly lends his good
3 Wolverine Light Grav Tanks
looks and deep voice to the war effart.
Second Light Arnored Platoon
Lieutenant Isabelle Antinaggio is the second-in-command and
3 Wolverine Light Grav Tanks
commander of Second Platoon. The Lieutenant leads from the A2I tank.
Third Anmored Infantry Platoon
which has recently been replaced. Lieutenant Antinaggio has survived the
3 Viper APCs
complete replacement of three crews and six grav tanks of various
3 Bounce Infantry Squads
tonnage. She has never been wounded in battle, but recruits assigned to
Fourth Light Recon Platoon
3 Seeker Light Grav Tanks
her tank are understandably nervous.
Sergeant Tracy Lee L'hler is the commander of the Fourth Platoon.
or Recon Platoon. Though she lacks the rank to command a platoon. she
Troop Quality: Elite
The tankers of A Troop are the cream of the crop. As the lead troop
took over the duty from the moment the new Seekers were assigned to the
unit. A veteran of many campaigns. she received the Commonwealth
of the regiment. these men and women get the most difficult missions.
Medal for Conspicuous Bravery for her actions on Caesar's Folly.
Because they are tequired to conducl all media relations. as well as fight
Sergeant Uhier has been described as a tanker with the soul of a fighter
in all forms of combat, these Iroopers get the best equipment and
pilol. Her disposition and training make her the perfect choice for the
technicians.
The Fourth Light Recon Platon is unique to A Troop. Attached after
recon command. Captain Benenez. expects little trouble in the confirma-
tion of Tracy's hattlefield promotion, even though the jump makes her an
the fighting on Caesar's Folly, this unit has yet to see combat. The Seeker
officer.
is a new design, and the troop is eager to test the vehicle.
The treatment of A Troop is typical of the way Commonwealth
Sergeant Yari Debuman, the oldest member of the unit, commards
soldiers deal with the media. Although selection to A Troop is highly
APC A32. "The Old Thrash and Trash." He has served with Third Platoon
for almost five years and has seen more than his share of combat. Though
sought, this is usually because of the outstanding combat record of the
unit, not the unusually high amourt of "air time" the troop receives. The
qualified for promotion, he has refused on three occasions, For unknown
Commonwealth forbids civilians from entering combat zones, thus ex-
reasons, he also refuses to he phatographed.
cluding most media coverage. The media are also forbidden lo stage
Second Lieutenant Gena Paddule is the second Mcdia Liaison
battles. to misrepresent the enemy or the Commonwealth, or to expose
Officer, a position unigue to A Troop, and commander of the Headquar-
themselves to danger. Because of these resirictions, most filming is done
ters Platoon. A former moxdcl and local aclress. she is respansible for
in the rear areas. In the words of Generai Biders: 'The media are one of
coordinating media coverage with the other duties of the troxop, She is an
ahle spokeswoman when the Captain is away and an able, if uninspired.
our most important tools in cxposing the evil of the TOG Empirc and
boosting the morale of our own units. Every effort must be made to oblige
supply officer
the inedia, without divulging troop strength or endangering the populace
we are sworn to protect." This policy has been successful. despite
grumbling from newsmen who want to know "what is really happening.

--- PAGE 11 [OCR] ---
Captain Richardo Ferguson
Commander, E Company
Leadership: 4
Captain Ferguson has the dubious honor of twice being voted the of-
ficer least liked by enlisted troops in his career. First as a Lieutenant and
then again following the fighting on Caesar's Folly, Captain Ferguson
earned these sentiments for his utter lack of remorse on the battlefield. He
states rmatter-of-factly that he has never taken a TOG soldier prisoner and
he does not intend to start. The ruthlessness of his attacks has sonietimes
broken the spirit of the enemy before the real battle even starts. As
heartless as he is toward the enemy, he shows only marginal sympathy [o
the troops of his command. Pushing them relentlessly, he drills every day.
even when on campaign. He has never permitted a soldier to transfer out
of his command.
Captain Ferguson has yet to meet his match on the battlefield. The
commander knows he has been as lucky as he has been efficient. He wins
victory after victoty despite the odds, letting his achieverients justify his
manner. His prormotion to E Company follows a series of impressive
victories over TOG heavy tank centuries. Colonel Lombard hopes that
this promotian wili finally match the Captain's tactics with the mission of
the unit he conmtmands.
Captain Ferguson coinmands from the El3 tank of First Platoon.
Second Lieutenant Brooks Wainwright is the commander of the
Third Platoon. Newly appointed to the command afrer the fighting on
E COMPANY, FIRST SOUADRON.
Caesar's Folly. Lieutenant Wainwright has yet to master the numerous
SECOND ACR
tasks required of a platoon leader in Ferguson's command. Until Caesar's
Folly. Wainwright was a tank commander in J Company, assigned to rear
g uard of the landing fields when the regiment left the planet. That changed
Heavy Grav Armored Company
when the 9865th Infantry Legion launched a surprise attack on the air-
Headquartcrs Platoon
fieids. His conimander was killed almost immediately by long-range
I Supply Vchiclc
Gauss fire. and the enemy was threatening to overrun the perimeter when
I Maintenancc/Commad Vehicle
Brooks took command. Despite being outgunned, J Company stood its
I Recovery Vehicle
grourid and then drove back the attackers, destroying several TOG heavy
First Heavy Arniored Platoon
tanks in the process. Wainwrighr was severely wounded in the battle. In
3 Deliverer Heavy Grav Tanks
the hospital. he was hailed the newest hero of the Second, and he was pro-
Second Heavy Amored Platoon
moted for his bravery. His return to duty was a media circus, and now he
3 Deliverer Heavy Grav Tanks
is finally beginning to settle into the routine of his new job. He commands
Third Heavy Armored Platoon
from the E31 tank.
3 Deliverer Heavy Grav Tanks
Sergeant Seneca Smithing is the commander of tank E33. Al-
though it is unknown to all save Colonel Lombard, Smithing's real name
Troop Quality: Elite
is Seneca Claudius Fortister, son of Maximus Forrister, Councilman of
Nieknarmed ""Ihe Tip of the Spear," this unit is called on to provide
Defiancc. Maximus Forrister had always expected his only son to follow
α breakthrough when the Second ACR is attacking and to shore up the line
in his footsteps, but the youth wanted to be a soldier. when it became
when the regiment is on the ciefensive. This unit is often held in rcserve
apparent the elder Forrister would never ailow the heir to his fortune to be
to provide e x tra push for regimental counterattacks. To accomplish these
risked in a war, Seneca ran away, enlisting in the Common wealth Army
goals. the unit replaces the normal third platoon of three Spartius Armored
as a private. From that time almost seven years ago, Seneca Smithing has
Persorinel artiern and the attached sguads of Bounce Infaniry with three
climbed the military ladder to tank commander.
addititonal Deliverer Heavy Grav Tanks.
Though his father has not heard frorn him in seven years. he has not
'Ihe trouop is always high on the list of units requiring additional
stopped looking and would pay handsomely for information.
muintenance. hut this is because of the amount of combal these tankers
see. ln faci, Commonwealth commanders have often remarked that
canualties are lighter than would be expected for a unit of this type. The
pride and elan of this unit are among the highest in the regiment.

--- PAGE 12 [OCR] ---
SECOND HOWITZER BATTERY, SECOND
SQUADRON, SECOND ACR
Howitzer Battery
Headyuarters Platoon
I Supply Vehicle
IMainienancerCommand Vehicle
I Recovery Vehicle
First Howitzer Platoon
3 Pedden Artillery Pieces
3 Chuck Wagon Supply Vehicles
Second Howitzer Platoon
Captain Mortimer St. Thoinas
3 Pedden Artillery Pieces
Conmander, Second Howitzer Battery
3 Chuck Wagon Supply Vehicles
Leadership: 4
Third Howitzer Platoon
Captain St. Thomas is a gruff, intenise man. He is always attired in
3 Petden Artillery Pieces
a spotless. pressed unifonm, even under the tnost extreme of conditions.
3 Chuck Wagon Supply Vehicles
When looking at him, however, one gets the feeling his dress clothing is
worn only to remind him that he is an officer. Captain St. Thomas is a man
Troop Quality: Regular
of near-violent energy. Quick to anger and quick to praise, he loves his
The troops of the Second Howitzer Ballery are fairly typical of the
command. He knows the narme of every man in his battery, from the
artillery troops of the regiment. Standard doctrine calls for the regiment
drivers to the supply masters. Young for a captain, St. Thomas has served
to place its artillery suppor1 well behind the front lines. When this is not
all of his professional life in an artillery battery of the Commonwealth. He
possible, the units are placed close to the lines and fire on the move to
minimize the vulnerability to counter-battery fire. when the units are
teeth, personally inspecting the readiness of his units. Those who know
stationed near the front lines, they usually Tecejve an infantry platoon for
him believe St. Thomas would fight TOG unarned. The Captain speaks
support. The infantry platoon is assigned to engage the enemy, allowing
constantly of getting face to face with the enemy and "seeing just what
the artillery to lcave the field.
these guys are made of." Captain St. Thomas leads from the number 13
Artillery is an important part of the Second Armored Cavalry
vehicle in the First Platoon.
Regiment because the regiment is often on the defensive.
A.Nt1中
Lieutenant Trent Kersley is the second in command of the unit and
commander of the Firsr Platoon, A personal friend of Captain St. Thomas,
Kersley has been with the Captain for the past [4 years, refusing a
command of his own several times, Lieutenant Kersley believes he is the
unit's good luck charm, and he may be right. The First Platoon has yet to
suffer a casualty under his command.
Kersiey is relaxed and casual, the opposite of Captain St. Thonas.
He portrays himself as a simple country boy caught in the scope of a huge
war. In fact, this is far from the truth. As a Defiance Military Academy
graduate, he is well-versed in the art of war. Had it not been for the deep
friendship he discovered in the Captain, he would likely be a Captain or
Major by now.

--- PAGE 13 [OCR] ---
HEADOUARTERS TROOP, THIRD
SQUADRON, SECOND ACR
Headquaners Troop of a Light Armored Squadron
Maintenance Platoon
3 Grav Recovery Vehicles
Medical Platoon
3 MASH Gray Vehicles
Signat Platoon
I Gray ECM Vehicle
1 Grav Ew Vehicle
1 Gray Communications Vehicle
Supply Platoon
Lieutenant Callahan Hendrix
A.N. F4
3 Chuck Wagon Supply Vehicles
Commander of Special Forces Platoon
Headquarters Platoon
Leadership: 5
3 Viper Command Vehicles
Lieutenant Hendrix has commanded the platoon since its was
Special Forces Platoon
formed by Lieutenant-Colonel P'Kim. Hand picked by P'Kim, he was
3 Spartius APCs
hesitant at first. As one of the few Humans ever to escape from a TOG
3 Squads Bounce Infantry
penal facility, Hendrix often has quite different views of warfare. He
violently opposes TOG armies and has been fighting them since he was
Troop Quality: Regular
a child. His long career is quite distinguished, but there are few, outside
The Headquarters Troop of the Third Squadron is unique among the
upper level commanders, who would recognize his accomplishments. He
regiment because it uses a Special Forces Platoon instead of the normal
is a typical member of a special forces team. The Lieutenant is physically
Military Police Platoon. The other three Headquarters Troops contain the
unimposing, and his face has no prominent features. It is joked that a
nomal MP Platoon, with three squads of bounce infantry carried in Viper
waiter would fail to notice him, and the joke is not far from the truth.
APCs. Though the troop is listed as regular, the Special Forces Platoon is
Behind the bland exterior, however, is a vicious warrior. A soldier's
considered elite. These commandos have given the entire troop a rather
soldier, Hendrix is a man respected, not for his posirion, but for his deeds.
shady reputation.
The Lieutenant is as quiet in combat or off duly. He rarely speaks.
The Special Forces Platoon grew from the need to have an organic
preferring to let his face express his feelings. When he does speak, it is to
unit that could conduct behind-the-lines operations in support of the tank
the point.
units. The primary tasks of the platoon are to scout enemy terrain, provide
reconnaissance, destroy enemy supplies, and coordinate the activities of
guerrillas. Because of the length of their missions and the lack of
supporting units, the Special Forces Platoon uses the heavier Spartius
APC instead of the Viper. The normal scope of MP operations does not
require this heavier vehicle. Since its birth, the platoon has compiled a list
of successes. Its record has started plans to convert the Military Police
Platoon of the Fourth Squadron into a Speciai Forces Platoon.
Among the other three squadrons, the MPs operate as a rear security
force. Unlike their TOG counteparts, the Commonwealth Military Police
are more concemed with keeping enemies out of the rear areas, not
keeping troopers from deserting. Though they undergo a different train-
ing program, the MPs are still soldiers, ready to respond as a combat unit
should the need arise.
The Viper Command Vehicle is a standard Viper APC, with the
passenger compartment replaced by a command module consisting of an
Captain Doctor Philip Lewis is commander of the Medical Pla-
upgraded communications cluster, military data base, and map displays.
toon, The platoon has three doctors and nine medical assistants to care for
From the exterior, the two versions look almost identical, helping mask
the wounded rankers of the squadron. Doctor Le wis is a capable doctor but
the command center of the squadron or platoon. The only visible differ-
is somewhat disorganized. As a result, the unit often suffers from supply
ence between the command vehicle and the standard Viper is in the
problems.
antenna array, with the cormrmand Viper mounting three extra antennae.
Grav tanks provide a high degree of protection to their crew mem-
This command vehicle is extremely popular with the officers of the
bers. The chance of a MASH crew living through a tank's destruction is
Second because of its firepower and protection, which far outclasses other
high, even if the internal ammunition explodes.
command vehicles.
1.3

--- PAGE 14 [OCR] ---
S TROOP, FOURTH SOUADRON.
Captain Pulo Mayen
Commander, S Troop
SECOND ACR
Ieadership: 4
Pulo Mayen is a giant of a man. Standing nearly two meters tall, he
Medium Grav Armored Troop
weighs more than 136 kilos. inost of it dertsely packed tmusr le. He is bow-
Headquarters Platoon
legged and bxw-amed. the result of numerous: TOG-made breaks, and his
1 Supply Vehicle
chest ad back are viciously seared. Pulo, never Commander or Captain
!Maintenance/Command Vehicle
Mayen, is easily the strongest man in the regiment. He comnands S Troop
I Recovery Vehicle
with respecl alone, always the lirst man into hattlc and the last man out.
First Light Arored Platoon
His hate for TOG is as well known as his strength.
3 Aeneas Light Grav Tanks
Pulo has been a tanker since his escape twelve years ago. Naturally
Second Medium Armored Platoon
skilled as a driver, he served among numerous legions hefore being
1 Trajan Heavy Grav Tank
accepted into Officer's Candidate School. Upon complelion. he was
2 Horatius Medium Grav Tanks
posted to the Second ACR. Pulo is a direct tactician. Rarely subtle. his
Third Armored Infantry Platoon
victories, and suhsequcnt pronotions, havc comne frum hrute farce and
3 Romulus APCs
will power. Colonel Lombard is wrried about what will happen when
3 Bounce Infantry Squads
Pulo cones up against something that is stronger than he is.
As is customaty for the troop, the commander leads from the heaviest
Troop Quality: Regular
grav tank in the troup. Pulo currently commands from S21, the Trajan of
Though listed as a medium grav armored troop,  Troop varies in
Second Platoon.
strength from a heavy platoon to a jight troop. This is because the mcdium
Second Lieutenant Morganna Twellen is the comminder of the
troop of the Fourth Sguadron is composed mostly of escaped slaves and
Third Platoonl. Her family fled TOG-cuntrolled space following the
TOG deserters manning captured TOG equipiment. Many of the soldiers
declaration of the Patria Potestas. Her grandmother, a suiccessful infantry
in the Renegade Legions can document their suffering at the hands of
commander, was assigned to the Second ACR following her clearance by
TOG, but soldiers of the Medium Troop can truly say they have secn the
Commonwealh Military Intelligence. Morganna continued the family
worst of the enemy. Nicknamed the "First Free Troop," the tankers of S
tradition of serving with the Secund ACR. She is slighily claustrophobic
Troop are always held in reserve when the regiment enters battle.
and will only ride in an APC for short periods of time, leading the men and
Regimental Communications Techs immediately begin breaking down
women of all three squads from the "nice, safe. wide open ground." as she
TOG IFF, Identify Friend or Foe, codes, Once a reasonable set of codes
puts ii. She is the only person t beat Pulo in unarmcd combat, winning
is established, S Troop is unleashed, The troop nears the front lines and
one fall of thrce during the lant regimental games.
hides under whatever cover is available, and all vehicles power down.
When the front shifts. S Troop heads for the TOG rear, having allowed the
front-line TOG units to pass; by. The troop operates almost exclusively
deep behind enemy lines, to devastating effect.
The members of this troop are, without a doubt, the most vicious in
the regiment. They will glaciy accept the surrender of a defeated unit.
provided the soldiers agree to swear loyalty lo the Second ACR on the
spot. Those showing the least hesitation are gunned down. Naturally, the
Second ACR commanders frown on this recruitment technique, but S
Troop has been extremely successful. There is never a shortage of volun-
teers for the unit, but finding serviceable TOG vehicles to replace losses
can be difficult, The troop has been known to refuse Commonwealth
replacement vehicles and enter combat understrength. The roup has
accomplished every mission since its staffing with former slaves.
To the delight of the Second ACR command, the reputation of the
First Free Troop is growing. There is even a rumor of hounties on the
heads of s Troop officers. This has made members of s Troop more daring
and determined to strike at their former masters in any way they can.
When at normal strength, this unit does not vary that tnuch from a
normal medium troop of the regiment. Using the TOG counterparts of the
standard light tanks and light personnel carriers, S Troop is ideally
configured identically to the other light troops of the regiment.

--- PAGE 15 [EMPTY] ---

--- PAGE 16 [OCR] ---
Name: Andrew Armand Lombard
Race: Human
Age: 46
Sex: Male
Rank: Colonel
Position: Commander of the
Second Armored Cavalry
Regiment
Leadership Rating: 6

--- PAGE 17 [OCR] ---
hital Prlu
Lombard is a man of medium height and weight, He has fought the
aging prexcess for his entire life and appears much younger than his years.
He runs five kilouieters every moming, and he occasionaly participates
in regimental athletic events. His brown hair is still unstreaked with gray.
despite the weight of command. His steei blue eyes are his most striking
physical feature, a feature he uses to great effect when dressing down
subordinales.
Biograph!
Colonel Lombard has fought with the Second ACR all of his adult
life. He entered the regiment as a new Second Lieutenant, fresh out of the
military acadamy. He ha entered the army not to fight the TOG, but to
get an education, Following his initial tour of duty, he received a
promotion and troop command. He served as commander of C Troop for
several years and was eventually promoted to commander of the Third
Squadron, a post he held until taking command of the regiment. An able
lanker and capable officer. Lombard is the first commander in recent
history to serve his entire career with the regiment. His promotion, only
months before the regiment left for Caesar's Folly, was unanimously
hailed by the troopers he leads. The new position has not been easy for
Lombard, however. Restricted to the rear areas, he is still learning the job
of observer, regulating the flow of the men and machines under his
command. As a sguadron commander. he had been allowed much more
freedom to inspect the lines and take a more direct role in the fighting.
Colonel Lombard is an exceilent tactician. Years of line command
have given him a thorough understanding of modern armored combat, His
tactics on Caesat's Foily were especially successful. The ability of the
Second ACR to hold back the vastly superior forces of the 9865th Infantry
Legion led to the destruction of an entire TOG legion by the 87lst
Renegade Strike Legion.
Persomlity
I.ombard is devoted to the unit he commands. He has reached his
professional goal, and it is unlikely he would accept another promotion.
no matter how lotty. Though he is normally a quiet leader, Lombard's
outhursts are legendary. Even when a Second I.ieutenant, he possessed an
air of authority and command. He has mastered the art of leading without
bossing, Still a bachelor, he has been romantically linked to several of the
womcn in the unit throughout his career. When off duty, which is seldom.
Lombard is quiet and reserved.
17

--- PAGE 18 [OCR] ---
Name: Arlish Hallaene
Race: Naram
Age: 39
Sex: Male
Rank: Lieutenant-Colonel
Position: Executive Officer, Second
Armored Cavalry Regiment
Leadership Rating: 4

--- PAGE 19 [OCR] ---
PhsieaProih
Hallaene is an extremely small specimen of his race. Slightly vain.
he is always immaculately dressed.
Bigraphy
Hallaene's first posting was almost his last, as his unit was overrun
a few hours before his arrival. With his unit destroyed, his commanders
placed him in the supply platoon. niostly to keep him out of the way.
Hallaene soon proved himself a logistical genius. He was sent to OCs and
then to Staff College. When reassigned to a Naram Armored Regiment.
he began to implement several changes. His ideas have received enthusi-
astic welcome since his posting with the Second five years ago, He was
considered for comrmand of the regimeni, but he asked that his name be
removed. citing his lack of line command experience, As the unit's
Executive Officer. Hallaene has begun to acquire the necessary experi-
ence to rise to regirmentai command.
Iersonalit?
Arlish Hallaenc had always viewed the army as a means to avoid
meaningful work. Carefree and easygoing in the extreme, he had abso-
lutely no ainbition. Things changed, however. when he awoke one
morning lo discover his home planet overrun with TOG infantry. His
sense of purpose rew when his parents were tondenned to work in the
crystal mines and his two sisters were sold into slavery, His ability to
organize people and supplies was put to the test coordinating the supply-
ing of rebels in six cities.
His efforts were suceessful. but the defeclion of one agent led to the
destruction of his operation. Since then, Hallaene has felt betrayed by his
government. his planer. and his friends. His hatred for TOG runs very
deep. but on the surface he seems calm and detached, Hallaene would
glacily trade all he owns for news of his family or their safe passage lo the
Commonwcalth.
Hallaene is very conscious of the regiment's security, and he moni.
tors it constantly. On more than one occasion, he has foiled TOG atlenipts
to infiltrate the tunit
A.N.

--- PAGE 20 [OCR] ---
EQVIPMENT
AUGUSTUS
Weapons:
Type
Location
Jamage
Range
Class: Heavy Grav Tank
7.5/6 Laser
Turret
Cost: 2,464,150
7.5/6 Laser
Turret
10
Mass: 382
2()
Vulcan IV
Turret
Engine: 25(00
NA
200mm
Turret
Thrust: 4
15
100mm
Hull 1
Scenario Points: 25
10
TVLG (4)
Hull 1
Infantry Squad: No
TVLG (4)
Hull 2
Digging Cannons: No
Smlm (2)
Hull 2
10
Shields:
90
Overview:
Fronr:
Right:
80
The Augustus is TOG's newest heavy grav tank and one of the mast
Left:
80
devastating vehicles ever produced. Designed by Triumph Armament
Stem:
90
1.td., the first Augustus glided off the assemhly line in late 6830. Its first
official combat occurred in 6x2x. on the planet Promise in Rift County.
Bottom:
70
Armor:
In the nine months that the Augustus served on Promise. it racked up a
100
higher kill rate than any other vehicle in TOG history.
Front:
Right:
100
Often called a monster or giant, the Augustus carries S7 tons of Tri-
100
Left:
Exoly armor, the hest available. The grav tank's weakest shield is a 70
100
Stern:
flicker-rate, and that is on the bottom, The rcst of the vehicle is protected
70
Bottom:
with 80- and 90-flicker shields. The Augustus can accelerate by as much
100
Turret:
as So KPH every minute. In addition. its armament list sounds like some-
thing off a battlecruiser. A 2(Xmm Gauss Cannon is mounted in the turret.
along with two 7.5/6 lasers and a Vulean [V point defense systen. [n the
hull is a 10omm Gauss Cannon. plus [wo TV1,G (4) missile launchers and
an SMi.M (2) system. Tn save mass, the designers decided nat to install
any digging cannons.
211

--- PAGE 21 [OCR] ---
OOGGOGGGGGGOGGGG
LABIENUS
Weapors:
Type
Darmage
Location
Range
Class: Medium Armored Gray Personnef Carrier
100mm
Turret
10
Cost: 1.26x.x50
TVLG (4)
Turret
Mass: 225
AP Laser
Turret
Engine: 1600
Turret
Vulcan IHI
NA
Thrust: 6
Hull 2
S/6 Laser
Scenario Points: 13
TVLG (4)
Hull I
Infantry Squad: Yes
SMLM (2)
Hull 2
10
Digging Cannons: Yes
Overview:
Shields:
The Labjenus was introduced in 6826 as a possible replacement for
Front:
60
the Romulus APC. TOGSOG, the Terran Overlord Govermment Strategy
Right:
50
Operations Group. was instantly taken with the design and ordered an
Left:
jmmediate prototype evaluation and limited production run. Operational
Stem:
60
testing was to last more than three years. The Labienus's combat debut
Bottom:
40
came in 6827, on the planet Carthage X in Shannedam County, with the
3241st Strike Legion.
Armor:
The Labienus is slightly larger than the Romulus. Though slightly
Front:
80
weaker in arinor protection, the Labienus far outstrips the Rornulus in
Right:
08
weaponry. The Labienus mounts a 1oOmm Gauss Cannon in the turret,
Left:
80
along with a TVLG (4) system. an antipersonnel laser, and a Vulcan IIl
Stern:
80
point defense system. A 5/6 laser, a TVLG (4), and an SMLM (2) missile
Bottom:
40
launcher are mounted in the hutl, With acceleration comparable to the
Turret:
06
Romulus. the Labienus's weaker shielding seems to bother few people.

--- PAGE 22 [OCR] ---
PEDDEN
Weapons:
Type
Location
Damage
Class: Gray Artillery Piece
Range
GPA5 Cannon
Turret
Artillery
Cost: 1.923.750
20
Vulcan IV
Turret
Mass: 357
AP Laser
HullI
Engine: 1800)
Thrust: 4
Overview:
Scenario Points: 2
Infantry Squad: No
The Pedden RA V (Renegade Artillery Vehicle) in the standard gray
Digging Cannns: Yes:
artillery piecc of Renegade Legion units and is used widely by the
Coinmonwcalth as well, Thc Pedden was introduced in 6804 and was first
Shields:
used in combat during the Rift County campaign of 6&o06. The vehicle has
Front:
09
heen steadily upgraded since then and is now one of the best artillery
Right:
50
vehicles in service. An autstanding artillery weapon on a rugged vehicle.
left:
50
the Pedden is one of the mnst flexible and accurate artillery systems ever
Stem:
50
fielded. Respected hy its crcws and its enemies. the Pedden's only
lirnitations are those uf all artillery, ammunition supply and vulnerability
[o direct assault.
Armor:
Front:
Right:
40
Ieft:
40
Stern:
Bottom:
Turret:
50
00000

--- PAGE 23 [OCR] ---
SEEKER
Weapons:
Type
Location
Damage
Class: Light Gray Vehicle
Range
MDC-12
Turret
Cost: 914.850
25mm
Turret
Mass: 137
TVLG (2)
Hull 2
Engine: 1500
Thrust: 10
Overview:
Scenario Points: 10
The Seeker is a fairiy new vehicle, designed by the Commonwealth
Infantry Squad: No
as a recon vehicle for Commonwealth and Renegade Legion units. The
Digging Cannons: No
Seeker first saw combat in 6820 on the day it was received by Common-
Shields:
wealth forces.
Front:
50
The Seeker's excellent acceleration and adequate firepower make it
Right:
40
well-suited for reconnaissance, but its armor is rather weak, even for a
Left:
40
light vehicle. The shielding on this tank is fair, but no better than that on
Stern:
the aging and ineffecrual Nisus. The Seeker has a more powerful weapon,
20
Bottom:
the MDC-12. In addition, the Seeker's ECM and detection equipment are
state-of-the-art.
Armor:
Front:
Right:
30
Left:
30
Sterm:
20
Bottorm:
10
Turret:
40
00.00 00.000000

--- PAGE 24 [OCR] ---
NOWHERE TO RUN
TOE THE LINE
SITUATION: MARCH 22, 6829.
 From the Personal Jourmal of Captain St. Thomas. Dated March
CAESAR'S FOLLY
22-23, 6829.
By the end of March, the situation of the 816th Strike Legion was
desperate. It had been trapped by the &71 st Renegade Strike Legion, and
..If I ever say I want to fight a front-line unit again, I hope Trent
the noose was slowly being drawn. If the unit was to survive, relief had
kicks tmy butt. I never imagined those guys would be so fast, or tough, or
to arrive soon.
determined. I still have no idea who commanded that unit, but he alrmost
The commanders of the 871 st knew they had a once-in-a-lifetime
got the better of me.
Not that I'd ever admit that to anyone but Trent. It would never do to
the chance slip away. They assigned the attached Second Armored
have the "Bear" admit he was scared, but I surely was.
Cavalry Regiment to block the relief effort of the 9865th. The tankers of
We had just set up to support the rest of the squadron and their
the Second Armored Cavairy Regiment were well kr wn for their ability
position about 75 klicks to the south. The 9865th Infantry was in a hurry
to fight a defensive campaign, but they were sorely tested by the 9865th.
to relieve their buddies in the & 16th Strike, Can't say that I blame them for
Initial clashes were brief but bloody. Both sides realized the impor-
trying to rescue their friends. From the reports coming in, I'd guess the
tance of the mission, and neither side was willing to give an inch of
8lbth can't hold out much longer. If we can prevent their relief just a few
territory without a fight. Afrer several days of probing, the 9865th finally
more days, you can stratch that legion off the rolls. If the 986Sth can't
selected a general assault plan, right ove the position of the Second
manage the relief, however, it won't be from a lack of trying. Anyway, the
Squadron. The Second Sguadron had a well-defended position, with a
Second Squadron looked to receive a good bit of 986Sth attention, and I
series of permanent emplacements and a mobile force capable of dealing
took the lads north to support. We were supposed to be well away frorrt
with most threats, Critical to the defense plan, however, was the use of the
the fighting, but I should have been suspicious when the old man assigned
squadron's artillery to support the line and provide massed howitzer fire
some of Neil's boys to watch over us. It was a platoon that couldn't be
to repel any atack. In the modern battlefield, Captain Lombard knew he
spared, and if I'd taken the time, I'd have surely realized it.
could not assign the Second Battery a permenant position, as the counter-
We hadn't fired rmore than the first salvo when Lieutenant Magellian
fire would destroy the artillery pieces during the opening minutes of the
(I wish I'd had a chance to get to know the boy) warned us that an arriored
assault. The battery was, therefore, provided a series of firing areas from
infantry century was on the way. It was my call to stay and support the
which they could lay a barrage and move to a new location, With several
fight or to get out of harm's way. I'd still choose to stay and fight, just like
locations available, there was little chance TOG would have the time to
I did, but I wouldn't be guite as eager. I really should write to Magellian's
launch a counter-battery attack. The Captain's plan, however, did not
father, even though I wasn't his CO, He'd have been real proud of his son.
allow for the random chance that a TOG century would stumble upon the
I suppose it matters that the Old Man considers the engagement a
battery's operating area.
success. Two of those slippery devils got behind us, but from what I hear,
The ensuing fight was mercifully brief. The Pedden Artillery Pieces
the MPs managed to track them down before they had a chanice to cause
continued to lay down a supporting barrage for the hard-pressed members
too much damage. The rest of them went down in flames. Fought to the
of their squadron, while the attached armored infantry platoon sought to
last man. We took some heavy losses, but we'll be functional in two more
blunt the TOG attack. The battle tumed into a slugfest, with neither side
days. So much for winning my first direct-fire engagement as an officer.
willing to back down. It ended suddenly, when one of the Peddens blew
It's not quite the thrill I imagined it would be.
off the turtet of the TOG command vehicle with a point-blank shot. The
surviving soldiers remained true to the last orders of their commander, but
with his demise, their lack of leadership allowed the piecemeal attack to
be turned. Two Romulus APCs managed to slip to the north, where they
encountered a platoon of Second ACR MPs, but the remainder of the TOG
vehicles were destroyed in the attack.

--- PAGE 25 [OCR] ---
GAME SEI-UP
Deployment
All nine of ihe Pedden Artillery Pieces start the scenario grounded.
facing svuth. T'hese vehicles may be placed anywhere on Map 3. The
Vipers of' H'T'ruop may start the scenario anywhere on Map 3, in any flight
mode and facing, with an initial velocity of 8 or less. Infantry squads may
begin the scenario either loaded in Vipers or placed on Map 3. Infantry
may be deployed using Hidden Placenient. Vipers and infantry may start
the scenario dug in by cxpending one Digging Charge per unit.
Special Rules
Attacker
I. Grounded Artillery Fire. Because of the stable fire piatform pro-
Sth Century, 9/9865th Infantry Legion
vided by a grounded artillery piece, any Pedden thal grounds gets three
fire missions. instead of the normal one, during the turn, Any such ground-
Centurion Barreti McMahon, Conmaner
ing will ininediately cause a counter-battery attack, as described below.
Leadership Rating: 2
2. Cuunter-Battery Fire. Due to advances in targeting technology.
Troop Quality: Rcgular
counler-battery fire is as aecurate as it is deadly. Targets that remain
Ist Medium Grav Armor Platoan
motionless invite enemy guns to destroy them. If any artillery vehicle
3 Horatius Medium Grav Tanks
grounds and fires, it immediately subjects itself to counter-battery fire.
2nd Mediun Grav Arnor Platoon
The grounded hex is largeted, along with an additional i Dlo hexes within
3 Horatius Mediuin Grav Tanks
a six-hex radius of ihe grounded hex. The enemy player secretly notes the
3rd Armored [nfantry Platoon
target hexes for the appropriate numher of incoming rounds on a sheet of
3 Romulus APCs
paper. During the next ound, the counter-battery fire will fall in the
3 Syuads Bounce Infantry w/Murtars
chosen hexes. The enemy player may chose cither HELL rounds or HAFE
Ist Light Gray Armor Platoon. 3rd Century. 9/9865th Infantry
rounds.
legion (attached)
3. Dirert Fire Artillery. The Pedden Artillery Piece is designed as a
3 Aeneas light iray Tanks
long-range, indirect fire, support weapon. Because of this design, the
Off-Board Artillery Fire: 2 Fire Missions/Turn plus counter-ballery fire.
Pedden is. not very accurate when targeting at a Tange of less than four
kilometers, To reflect the problems of direct fire, the Renegade player
Deployment
shuuld use the following rules. Any GPsA attacks against targets at a
The First Platoon of Third Century, 9/9865th., is serving as the recon
range of less than 2o hexes should be treated as a normal artillery attack
unit of the force and may deploy anywhere on Map 2. The Aeneases are
with a 'T'n-Hit Number ot 7.
remainder of the TOG force tieploys on Map 2 within three hexes of the
Victory Conditions
southernedge. Vehicles may start with any facing arnd velocity of no more
The Renegade player may cxit any unit off the north or west side of
than  at normal flight mixde, No vehicle may start the scenario gruunded
the map. Units that exit may not be brought back on the board and are not
All infantry units start inside the APC's.
counted toward Viclory Conditions. The TOG playet may safely exit
unils to the north only. Any unit of either side that exits the board to the
Defender
south is considered destroyed.
In addition 1o normal Victory Points for destroyed Vehicles, the
2nd Howitzer Battery., 2nd Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry
Renegade player rcccives 2 vp per fire mission delivered off board toward
Regiment
the fighiing in thc south. The TOG player receives 5 vp per vehicle that
Captain Mortimer St. Thotnas, Conmander
exits the board to the north.
Leadership Rating: 4
'I'he Rencgade player is faced with the difficulty of defending his
Troop Quality: Regular
own position and mainlaining the supporting fire required by the troops
Ist Gray Arlillery Platoon
of the Second Squadron, who are engaged in fierce conbat in the south.
3 Pedden Artillery Pieces
If the artillery support fails, the defensive psition of the Second Squad-
2nd Grav Artillery Platoon
ron will surely fall. The 'T'OG player must balance the opportunity to siip
3 Pedeien Artillery Pieces
several vehicles past the Second Arinored Cavalry Regiment's lines and
3rd Gray Artillery Platoon
breaking thc supporl of the howitzer battery.
3 Pedden Artillery Pieces
Whcn the game is uver. each player totals his Victory Points. A
vehicle is counted as tfestroyed if it has suffered an ammunition expla-
3rd Armured Infantry Platoun, H Troop, 2nd Squadron, 2nd
sion. its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destrayed" hox is hit. An infantry
Armored Cavalry Regimcnt (attached)
squad is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties, Any unit
3 Viper APCs
is counted as destroyed-if it exits the board on an unsafe side.
3 Squads Bounce [nfaniry wffVLGs
The Victory Level is detcrmined acecording to nommal Centurion
rules.

--- PAGE 26 [OCR] ---
HOLD THAT LINE
BUMP AND RUN
SITUATION: MARCH 30, 6829.
CAESAR'S FOLLY
"Captain, here they come."
"What? Wendel. give me a read."
While other members of the Second Armored Cavalry Regimenl
'Sir, we've got three Trays making a run for our position. Inbound in
were atlempting to prevent the relief of the 816th Strike Legian. B Troop
less than three minutes, Iooks like some real heavies. Lots of emission
was held back as part of the strategic reserve. When the breakthroughs
trailings. We might even have a few of those new Augustuses."
finally came, B Troop was deploycd in a direct path of the onrushing grav
"That's just great. 1 thought we were supposed to have some air
units.
suppori in this secror! Hawker, get on the Net. Tell the Old Man that
Captain Woodworth was placed in a difficult situatio. She knew
they're coming through too fast. We're going to have to fall back."
that the TOG units she was required to intercept would attempt to regroup
"Craig, get your boys rounded up. We're moving out."
bchind the Renegade lines for their assault on the 87 I st. Captain Wood-
"Sir. I've got a negative on your fall-back. The Old Man says to
worth also knew that she lacked the strength to hold back the greater TOG
engage. We're supposed to buy time. He's waiting for confimation."
forces. If unable to stop them, however, she needed to slow them down.
"Ah., .damn! Craig, you hear that? Keep your boys down. Hawker.
Her tactics called for her reinforced trop to hit the 9865th as hard
confirr the order te bump. Find out how long we've got to hald these
as possible. stop them, and ihen disengage before the greater power of the
guys."
TOG guns could be brought to bear. ller heavy tanks were to be ser up
"Sir. the inbounds are closing. They've madc our position, and
directly in front of the approaching TOG armor. The remainder of her
they're vectoring in. We're running low on time.""
command would deploy fat enough from the Deliverers to hit the enemy's
"Captain, the boys are down. I've got the Vipers in the rear, ready to
flanks. This hasic guerrilla tactic mnight have worked had the ToG forces
support. My dogs aren't likely to be seen till they start painting."
nol artived so soon. The Deliverers werc set up to blunt the attack, but the
" wish I was as optimistic. wendel, where's ihal air support? Jacen
remainder of the troop was not in position. When the TOG forces arrived.
..Jacom..
they caught the entire troop in front of them.
"Jalconeddi. ma'am."
Faced with a severe change in tactics, Captain Woodworth did the
"Ed, did you follow thar?"
best she could. Using the Deliverers to engage the attackers at long range.
"I'm new to the unit, ma'am, not stupid."
she ordered the remainder of her command to snipe at any vehicle that
"Answer the queslion. I'll decide if you're stupid. And it's sir, not
presented itself. The battle turmed out to be much more costly, and much
ma'am."
less effective, than the Colonel had anticipated. 'rhis mauling forced him
"Sir. I followed ihe conversation."
to throw Captain Abbotsford's E Company, his lasl reserve troop, into the
"Can you hold them?"
fray.
'No, sir. Nut if they've got those Auggies. They plain and simply
mount too much firepower. If we're lucky. we'll get one of them."
"Craig?"
"The boys will lead with the Auggies. Don't leave us hanging.
"Sir. vector is tight. [nbounds are close."
"That's the word people. We hit, and then we run. Nobody leave
withoul my OK. TeeCees regroup al Baker-three. Craig. your boys are
going to he hanging three sheets to the wind if this thing falls apart. Ler
them go overland if they get left behind, Theoretically, we're surrounded
by friendlies."
"Sir, the inbounds have arrived."

--- PAGE 27 [OCR] ---
FOVRTH AND LONG
THE CRESCENT
SITUATION: MARCH 30, 6829.
CAESAR'S FOLLY
Recently declassified debriefing of Sergeant Seneca Smithing, Tank
Commander, Third Platoon, E Company, First Squadron, Second ACR.
When the remains of B Troop came spilling back into his area.
following the holding actions on Caesar's Folly.
Captain Abbotsford knew his situation was grave. His troop had been
depleted in an altempt lo shore up B Troop, and now he was being forced
INELLICENCE OrFIcFR: Please recount yUur initial placement.
into combat with the tankers at their limits from hattle fatigue. As the
Smi'hinc: Again? Sure. one more time. We were set up in & slightly hilly
armorers swarined ver the arriving vehicles. the Captain began lo
region, about 20 klicks behind the lines. Well. 20 klicks behind the lines
pasition his forces.
as they were drawn that morning. Things were rather fluid when the
engagement began. We were dispersed in a Broken Crescent behind El3.
command would be listed as a reinforced troop, but two platoons were not
the Captain's grav, with my vehicle as the other point of the formation.
combat-ready. If exposed, they would crumble like crushed aluminum
IO: And what is a Broken Crescent?
cans under TOG hands. He devised a plan to make use of the six Deliverers
SmirHinG: Hey. you guys ever done any field time?
still in good condition. His hope hinged on meeting the T'OG advance with
IO: Answer the question, Sergeant.
his fresh tanks, allowing the damaged vehicles to enter the fray when
SmiTlliNg; A Broken Crescent is a variation of the standard Crescent for-
numhers were not so severely weighted for TOG. His plan called for
mation, In a Crescent, your vehicles are positioned equal distance from an
deployment of a Broken Cresceni.
approaching enemy column. From the air, it looks like a crescent with the
'This formation is nat often used in modern grav warfare, The speed
open end toward the enemy. With the Broken Crescent you sort of peel
and firepower of grav tanks make it cifficult to execute pioperly, and
back one ot the points, making it farther from the enemy.
when timing fails, this plan leads to disaster.
IO: Why?
A Broken Crescent's success hinges on the slaying power of the lead.
Smft'lliNG: Why, Why, what? Hey, is ihere samehody else I could talk to?
or point, vehicle. This vehicle encounters the enemy first. The enemy has
Somebody in the military, mayhe?
IO: Sergeant. you will answer all questions. in a manner to my liking.
letting the rear engage. If the enemy engages. the point musi survive for
before you will be allowed to leave. You are only delaying your own
as long as possible to allow the remainder of the column to swing around.
departure by being quartelsome
If the vehicle survives, it will become a pivot point for ihe troop, as they
SmitHiNi: wWhy. OK. I imagine we were deployed in a Braken Crescent
rush forward, hitiing the front, flank, and rear of the stalled enemy. If
to deceive the enemy. With my platoon farther away, they unconsciously
ignored, the point rushes through the enemy column, striking at anything
perceive us as a smaller threat. This foois them into believing they have
that moves. The vehiclc will Hikely be attacked from all sides hut will sow
time to deal with the point ofthe crescent. In this case, they were mistaken.
enough confusion for the remainder of the troop to close and trike. The
They failed 1o destroy the point and were, consequently, tlanked by Third
poinl vehicle has a minimal chance of surviving eiiher engagcment.
Platoon and the remains of B Troop. Although we sustained heavy
Abbotsford's plan worked for a number of reasons. First. he was a
casualties. we were able to encircle them, striking their flanks. The TOG
gd tanker and a great shot. The approaching rOG commander decided
position became undefensible, and they retreated. We gave them a kick
he could not allow Abbotsfort's tank into the rear, nfortunately for the
in the butt on their way out, but we were too heavily damaged to continue
TOG Centurion, he was leading his column with the vehicles damaged
the pursuit.
from the encounler with B Troop. The First Platoon quickly reinforced the
JO: I see.
Crescent's point. and the lead TOG vehicles began dropping ar an
SMITHING: I doubt it.
alarming rate. The Centurion attempted to defeat the point with the
JO: Sergeant. do you have anything else to add?
remainder of his command. Although finally successful, he took too much
SmiTilNG: Yeah, I guess I do. The Captain's plan worked like a cham.
time to accomplish his goal. The remainder of the troop swept in from the
You don'1 nomally match a TOG century grav-to-grav and come out a
north and west. ntriking with fury. Pushed back by this onslaught, the
winnel. It wurked this time because of our training and leadership. We
Centurion was farced to admit defeat when the remaining grav tanks of
held the line, despite being outgunned and outweighed. Sorne of us are
B Troop threatened his rear.
actually walking and breathing today because of the Captain. I hate him
By foreing the retreat, Captain Abhotsford prevented the relief
with a passion., but there isn't a commander I'd rather serve under. If you
column from attacking the 87I st Renegade Strike Legion, which was in
ask me, the man deserves the Commonwealth Cross.
the final stage of destroying the lhth Strike Legion. Although several
IO: Thank you Sergeant, that was exactly whal we were asking.
additional attempts were made to reach the besieged legion in the coming
days, this battle marked ihe farthest ToG advance.
28

--- PAGE 28 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Defender
E Coinpany, lst Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
Captain Victor Abbotsford, Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Elite
lst Heavy Grav Armor Flatoon
3 Deliverer Heavy Grav Tanks
2nd Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3 Deliverer Heavy Gray Tanks
Artillery Support: one Fire Mission per turn
In addition, the Commonwealth player may use survivors from the
previous scenario, "Hold That Line,"' subject to the restrictions found in
Attacker
the Special Rules.
3rd Century, S/986sth Infantry Legion
Deployment
Centurion Patterson Uranetl, Commander
The grav tanks of E Company may be placed anywhere on Map 1,
Leadership Rating: 3
with any facing and flight mode, at a velocity no more than the vehicle's
Troop Quality: Regular
thrust. Units may begin the scenario grounded and in craters by expending
Ist Medium Grav Armor Platoon
one Digging Charge. Infantry squads, if available, may begin the scenario
3 Horatius Medium Gray Tanks
inside their APCs or on the ground, using hidden placement.
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
3 Horatius Medium Grav Tanks
Special Rules
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
1. This scenario should be played in conjunction with the previous
3 Lpis APCs
scenario, "Hold That Line." Surviving units and units that ex ited the map
3 Sguads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
successfully may be used in this scenario.
2. Renegade units that survived the previous scenario wil be fully
In addition, the TOG player may use all survivors from the previous
rearmed, No damage, however, will be repaired.
scenario, "Hold That Line." subject to the restrictisns found in the Special
3. TOG units, operating behind enemy lines, have no repair or supply
Rules.
available. Any units that survived the previous scenario enter this confict
in the exact condition as they ended up in "Hold That Line."
Deployment
The Atracker may place his unit on Map 4 anywhere within six hexes
Victory Conditions
of the easlern edge. Vehicles may he placed with any facing and any flight
The scenario lasts until one side surrenders the field or all vehicles
mode, at a velocity no more than the vehicle's thrust. No vehicle may
of one side have been destroyed.
begin grounded. All infantry squads must be placed inside their APCs.
The objective of each side is to destroy, or drive from the field, all
enemy vehicles. Normat Victory Conditions apply. The TOG player is
attempting to clear the area of Renegade forces to provide a corridor for
other TOG farces. This corridor will be used to provide relief for the
bcsieged 8l6th Strike Legion. The Renegade player may exit safely from
any map side. This engagement takes place behind Commonwealth lines.
and so any TOG vehicle that exits the map is considered destroyed.
Vehicles that exit safely are not counted toward Victory Conditions.
When the scenario is over. each player totals his Victory Points. A
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explo-
sion, its crew'is dead, or the "Vehicie Destroyed" box is hit. An infantry
squadf is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit
is counted as destroyed if it exits the board on an unsafe side.
The Victory level is then determined according to nomal
Centurion rules.

--- PAGE 29 [OCR] ---
DESPERATE TIMES
INSTANT HEROES
SITUATION: APRIL 7, 6829, CAESAR'S FOLLY
-Portion of the WTEN daily news, direcl from Caesar's Folly.
The action at Raleigh Spaceport is the stuff of legends. A rare
Shannedam County.
combination of media coverage, overwhelming odds, extreme heroism.
and fantastic luck earned every member of J Company a hero's welcome.,
[The correspondent thaught she was braadcasting live. but her report was
or hero's funeral. The entire troop was cited for extreme bravery in the face
recorded and approved by Conmonwealth Military Intelligence prior to
of the enemy.
release.l
When the Second was recalled for refit, the Jogistics of lifting the
entire regiment, without leaving a significant gap in the Commonwealth
Are we on? You've got to get this one on the air, those guys don't
lines. proved to be a major problem. Although the 871 st Renegade Strike
stand a chancc.
Legion was able to provide sone assistance with the rear guard, at least
This is Gloria Jenners. I'm coming to you from the troop transport.
one of the regiment's troops was required to assist in case TOG launched
Mr Mother's Pride. We are currently heading away from the planet of
a concentrated attack on the spaceport. Several troops requested the
Caesar's Folly, where the men and women of the 871 st Strike Legion and
assignment, but J Company received the duty of protecring the eastern
the Second Armored Cavalry Regiment have heen fighting two of TOG's
perimeter. This area was marked as the least likely to receive an attack.
front-line combat legions.
Unfortunately, the 986Sth nfantry Legion learmed of the regiment's
I am patching your hones directly inte the shipboard communica-
departure and planned an assault on the spaceport, timed when the unit
tion circuit. The men and women you are seeing now are the members of
was tnoslly abuard its ships. If the TOG forces could overwhelm the rear
J Company, Second Squadron. Second ACR, They are part of the rear
guard, they could destroy most of the regiment's vehicles while they were
guard, some of the few left behind to cover the departure of the regiment.
helplessly secured in their cargo berths. The only thing in the way was J
As you can plainly see, the smoking vehicle in the foreground is the
Company.
remains of the J Company command vehiclc. The new commander will
The TOG attackers softened the area with long-range fire and
likely...
brought up their heaviest guns. The attack started off well for TOG when
Right ihere you can see the first TOG grav tanks emerging from the
the attackers' long-range fire chanced to hit the command vehicle. With
edge of the field. We are going to link you to the Second's commnet so you
the death of its commander, J Company suffered through several tense
can feel the battle through the voices of the soldiers.
moments, waiting for the new commander to begin broadeasting. The
"j 1 1, take yours to the norih. Cover your butt. I've got the second and
executive officer would normally take over, but he was not a part of the
the cenler. J31, drop your hoys ASAP,"
Tear guard. Subsequently, command fell on Sergeant Major Brooks
"J22, take the blue camoed 'Irajan.'
Wainwright. He was not an officer, but he had the experience to command
"J33, head north. No! North!"
the troop. He later said the hesitation was not from indecision, but from
"Gales, cover 33. Henny, concentrate on the APCs."
forgetfulness. His driver had to tell him that he was next in line for
"Jl3. close up. Your flanker's gonc. Will somebody close down
command.
those Auggies!"
The battle was joined quickly. Wainwright employed his vehicles as
"This is J2I, I'm out. Ul...with me. I..."
wedge breakers and safeties. The breakets concentrated fire on one
"'Light him up! The dogs have got him painted."
vehicle until it fled the field or was destroyed. Saferies picked up what was
"Watch thc north, they're breaking around. Eleven. you still with
left and provided cover for the breakers. This tactic proved to be
me?"
successful, but at a high cost. When the smoke finally cleared, the only
"Hanging tough. They're...Damn. One Romy heading west. Sorry
vehicle left on the field was the infantry commander's armored personnel
about thal. TacOp. one got through. He'll be there any moment."
carrier. The entire TOG century had been destroyed or turned back. Only
"Nice shooting, five. That makes two, right?"
two vehicles managed to slip through, one making it all the way to the
"lhis is J22, I'm going...
landing field before it was picked up by the MPs of the 871 st.
"Seralch another. Brooks, what have we got left?"
"You rnean I'm not alcne? Nice I knw you're still around, but ihis
last one's mine."
"Heads south, sir. He's got you paintel."
"This is J3l. Get the medics up herc. The field is secure., but there's
going to he a hell of a price. Looks like I'm the only one left standing.

--- PAGE 30 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Defender
J Company, 2nd Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
Sergeant Major Brooks Wainwright, Acting Commander
Leadership Rating: 2
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3 Deliverer Heavy Grav Tanks
2nd Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3 Deliverer Heavy Grav Tanks
3rd Armored [nfantry Platoon
3 Spartius APCs
3 Squads Bounce Infantry wfTVLGs
Onboard Mines - 3
Deployment
The Defender may place his units anywhere on Map 3 or anywhere
Attacker
within five hexes of the western edge on Map 2. Vehicles may start with
any flight mxde and facing, with an initial velocity no more than the
2nd Century, 1/9865th Infantry Legion
vehicele's thrust. Vehicles may start the scenario dug in if desired by
Centurion Fulton Ziar, Commander
expending one digging charge. Infantry squads may be deployed sepa-
Leadership Rating: 2
rately, if desired, using hidden placemenl.
Troop Quality: Regular
Victory Conditions
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3 Augustus Heavy Grav Tanks
The scenario lasts until oniy one side is left standing. The Renegade
2nd Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
player must attempt to hold back the TOG player, no matter what the cost.
3 Trajan Heavy Grav Tanks
The TOG player must attempt to destroy the rcar guard and get as many
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
units into the take-off zone as possible.
3 Rormulus APCs
The objecl of both sides is to destroy, or drive away, the enemy. [n
3 Sguads Bounce Infantry w/mortars
addition to normal Victory Points, the TOG player receives points for
exiting his vehicles off the western edge of Map 2 before Turn 4. The TOG
Deployment
player receives one-half Victory Poini per one Scenario Point of ihe
vehicle exited. TOG vehicles that exit any other side of the map or exit
The Attacker should place his tanks anywhere within three hexes of
the eastern edge of Map 2 with any facing. at normal flight, with a starting
after Turn 4, are not counted toward Viclory Conditions. For ex ample, if
a Trajan exits the western edge of Map 2. the TOG player receives 12
velocity of & or less. All infantry squads should begin mounted in their
Victory Points. The Renegade player receivcs one-half Victory Point per
APCs.
one Scenario Point of his vehicle that escapes off the western edge of the
map after Turn 4 or remains on the map after all ToG vehicles have exited
or have been destroyed. Renegade vehicles that exit the weslern edge of
the map before Turn 4 are not counted toward Victory Points. Vehicles
that exit the map in any other direction are considered destroyed.
When the scenario is over. each player totals his Victory Points. A
vehicle is caunted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explo-
sion, its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destroyed" hox is hit. An infantry
squad is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit
is counted as destroyed if it exits the board on an unsafe side.
The Victory Level is then determined according to the nomal
Centurion rules.

--- PAGE 31 [OCR] ---
DOING DIRT
THE DOORMAN
SITUATION: MARCH 10, 6831., KU CRASSUS
"Affirmative on that, Bravo, We'll follow your lead.
The fighting on Ku Crassus was characterized by numerous short.
"Say again, Bravo."
sharp engagements involving troops and battalions. Although the lines
"Affirmative, Bravo, we'll have the wine chilled."
were fairiy static, they were often defined as areas more than So kilome-
Pulo keyed off the mike and pushed back the headpiece. "Cabot, if
rers wide.
you're still alive when this day is over. you can truly say you've lived to
When Captain Mayen approached Colonel L.ombard about an ex ten-
see it all, 
sive rear-area action, Lomharf was highly interested. The tankers of S
The gangly driver glanced back over his shoulder, smiling at his TC
Troop used captured TOG vehicles, making them difficult to identify
and Troop cormmander. He had long since learned not to respond to these
even under the best conditions. Lombard knew that if Pulo could reach the
cryptic statements from his commander. When Pul was Teady, he would
rear areas undetecled, he would almost certainly t - able to cause exten-
let everybody know what was on his mind. He retumed his gaze to the
sive damage to the 324 I st. He migh1 also easily be trapped, however.
vision port, waiting for the command that would slam the protection plate
The plan called for S Troop of the Second Armored Cavalry
over the crystal lens and convert the optical sensors to reiay information
Regiment to wait. powered down, and allow the TOG forces to pass by.
to the Tactical Display.
The troopers would then slip hehind the TOG line: and proceed as far east
Pulo rekeyed the mike and lowered his voice, as if the TOG seniries
as possible. By a stroke of fate, or luck. S Troop was intercepted by a
twelve klicks away could hear him talking to his infantry leader.
newly arrived TOG MP auxilia. The green MPs mistook the troopers for
"Morg, did you copy that transmission?"
returning front-line units and escorted them directly to the 3/324 1st Strike
'Just the end. Pulo, Were we just invited into the rear area?"
Legion's supply area, almost I( kilometers behind the lines. The Second
"Sounids like. Remind me to thank those desk jockeys back at the
Century protected the base area.
base for the iFF codes. That MP must have mistaken us for a returning line
When Pulo's troops arrived along the main rvad, they were initially
unit." Pulo grinned and absent-mindedly traced the scar on his neck. He
undetected. Their TOG markings had provided all the cover they needed
did not notice his loader, Tanner, cross himself and seitle into his couch.
to artive at their destination, [t was nat until the lead Trajan fired on one
That scar meant action, and everyone in the unit knew it.
of the supply vehicles that the TOG Legionnaires reacled.
"Could be a trap." Morganna remarked offhandedly.
In the next nine minutes, S Troop engaged the Second Century and
"Yeah, but this is what we get paid fot. We're going in. That MP is
then scattered to the north and west. T'he tankers regrouped, and on the
going to pick us up in a minute and escort us to someplace called Romeo-
way back to friendly lines, destrayed the forward supply tdump of the
Zulu-Fiver. Must be a rear staging area of some kind, We'll go in cool and
Third Cohort. As a result of several follow-up attacks by the Fourth
friendly." Pulo began to grin wider as he thought of the coming carnage.
Squadron, Renegade units advarced Ss kilometers. Pulo received a
"They'll never know what hit them."
commendation for his daring attack.

--- PAGE 32 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Deployment
The Defender sets up the Headquarters, Second, and Third Platoons
anywhere on Map 3. All vehicles are grounded, with their engines
Lay out Map 3 as shown. All Heavy Woods should be considered
powered down, at the start of the scenario. Infantry squads start thre
light woods for this scenario. For purposes of this scenario, the river on
scenario according to the Special Rules listed below. Vehicle crews begin
map 3 is treated as a road.
the scenario in their vehicles, Vehicles may have any facing at the start of
the scenario. The First Platoon arrives from the south edge of the map on
or after Turn 3 at any flight mode, with a velocity of no more than 6.
Special Rules
I. All of the TOG vehicles that start the scenario on the map are
powered down. During the Initiative Phase, roll one die. On a 2 or less, the
vehicle is successfully "cold-started." If the cold-start is unsuccessful,
another roll must be made at the start of the next turn. Each attempt after
Attacket
the first receives a +2 modifier. No vehicle may move, fire, or activate
shields until a successful start. Note that these vehicles are not simply shut
S Troop, 4th Squadron, 2nd Arinored Cavalry Regiment
down. The fusion engines have been disengaged to allow extensive main-
Captain Pulo Mayen, Commander
tenance. Cold-starting the engine is not an easy process under these
Leadership Rating: 4
conditions.
Troop Quality: Regular
2. Because this attack occurs so far behind the front lines, most of the
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
TOG infantry believe themselves to be reasonably safe. They are going
1 Trajan Heavy Grav Tank
about their daily routines with little concern, At the start of play, each
2 Horatius Medium Gray Tanks
squad should roll i D10 minus 4. Each counter should be placed that many
3rd Armored Infantry Platoom
hexes away from its vehicle.
3 Romulus APCs
3. The Cibus vehicles are modified Aeneas light tanks with the
3 Squads Bounce [nfantry wfl'vLGs
missiles and 1(Omm Gauss cannon removed to make room for cargo and
supplies. The vehicle still carries its I.5/4 laser. These Cibuses are built
Deployment
for cargo-handling and field repairs, not troop movement. Infantry may
The Attacker may place his units on the road hexes only, within three
dismount only from a Cibus that is grounded and may not fire their
hexes of the western edge of the map. The vehicles are traveling in
weapons in the turn they have dismounted. For this scenario, the Cibus
fornation, with the Trajan in the first hex, followed by the two Horatiuses,
supply vehicles are worth 1 5 total Victory Points.
and then the three Ronulus APCs. All vehicles start at normal flight mode
with a velocity of 4. All infantry sguads begin loaded in the APCs.
Victory Conditions
The game lasts until the S Troop commander withdraws off the north
Defender
or west edge of the map. Withdrawal may occur only after the arrival of
the First Platoon.
2nd Century, 3/324lst Strike Legio
The Renegade player may exit his units from any side of the baard,
Centurion Gideon Orthon, Commander
but all surviving units must exit at the same rime. All units not with the
Leadership Rating: 2
main body, either because they left the board early or remained on the
Troop Quality: Regular
board after the main group lefr, are considered destroyed. Because of the
Headguarters Platoon
snafu and serious repercussions, any TOG vehicle or infantry unit that
I Cibus Supply Vehicle
flees the fight is considered destroyed.
I Cibus Maintenance Vehicle
The objective of the Renegade player is to cause as much damage as
3 Sguads Bounce Infantry w/mortars
possible and escape off the map with as rmuch of his force intact as
Ist Medium Grav Armnored Platoon
possible. The support vehicles are especially important in the raid. It is
3 Horatius Medium Grav Tanks
also important that some of the raiders return to the Cormmonwealth line
2nd Medium Grav Arnored Platoon
so the media can report the incompetence of the TOG invaders. The TOG
3 Horatius Medium Grav Tanks
player must make the best of a bad situation and attempt to hoid the
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
attacker at bay until the arrival of the First Platoon.
3 Romulus APCs
When the game is over, each player totals his Victory Points. A
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
vehicie is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explo-
sion, its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destroyed" box is hit. An infantry
Artillery Fire Missons per turn:
squad is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit
Turns 1-3, 0 Missions
is counted as destroyed if it exits the board on an unsafe side.
Turns 4+, 2 Missions
The Victory Level is determined according to the normal Centurion
rules.
3.3

--- PAGE 33 [OCR] ---
PASS IN REVIEW
LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION
SITUATION: APRIL 9, 6831. KU CRASSUS
IHOLOVID TWO FADES IN ON FIRST WOLVERINE.J VicW Of
Advertisers tell us that the most important consumer item is the
three platoons. First and Sccomd Platoons iare Wolverines. The Third has
personal holovic viewer. It is impossible to imagire life without one. The
Vipers.
instant transmission of data and the ability to inform millions of people in
ICUT TO HOLOVID FOUR. CLOSE-UP OF 'TANK COM-
une broadcast make it the perfect tool for both infomation and propa-
MANDER OF 12 WOLVERINE.J A young sergeant leans against his
ganda. A successfut media strategy is as important as a military canpaign.
command hatch. hand over his microphone. Goggles hang from around
To this end, both warring parties attempt to win the hearts and minds of
his neck.
the people with military news flashes on the personal viewer.
ICL'T TO HOLOVID THREE. PULL AWAY FROM I2 WOL-
Camera crcws are a common sight in the rear areas αf all combat
VERINE TI'O FRAME ALL OF LEAD PLATOON. BEGIN MUSIC.]
units, and troops with a knack for winning battles quickly draw media
View entire First Platonn.
attenion, A legion that wins consistently can acquire a media following
IZOOM HOLOVID FOUR TO CAPTAIN. FOCUS ON EYES.]
almost as large as the legion itself. Recent advertiser studies indicate that
Profile of Huinan/Naram leader of A Troop.
a eommon soldier is almost as likely io be interviewed as injured.
IMUSIC STOPS. OVERHEAD WHINE OF AN INCOMING
Contrary to TOG dotrine, Commonweaith civilian reporters are not
MISSIlE. CLiT TO HOLOVID FOUR.J View of three incoming Aeneas
allowed to enter combal zones. They must rely on officiail reports and
[ight Grav 'T'anks, hatehes closed, guns hlazing.
government-provided footage. The crews are allowed to film and inter-
[SOUND OF MISSILE MPACT, HOLOVID FOUR SHAKES
view in the rear areas. These filming sessions, or cake walks, as they are
AND LOSES FOCUS BUT RETAINS TRANSMISSION. ZOOM ON
known, require a unit to parade in front of the canmeras for several minutes.
I2 WOl.VERINE.] 'I'C drnps into turret and buttons hatch.
The image is immediately uploaded. via satellite. to the main processing
IPULL AWAY FROM I2 WOLVERINE. CLIT TO HOLOVID
stalion, where it is developed into finished footage.
ONE.J Thick smoke obscures most of the picture. Two more platns of
On rare oceasions. these civilian crews are treated to a real fight.
Aeneases burst through the smoke. The lead vehicle pivols its turrct and
usually when a slatic front suddenly hecomes a ffuid one, or when the
fires.
enemy exploits a breakthrough. A breakthrough can turn int a reporter's
ICUT TO HOLOVID THREE. ZOOM ON LEAD AENEAS.
tream. provided he survives the encounter. TOG grav tanks suddenly
FOCUS ON UN!I MARKINGS ON THE SIDF OF THE TURRET.J
appear. guns hlazing, destroying anything in the way. The footage can be
Crest of the 324I st Strike Legion.
impressive. hut rarely does it capture the attention of the public. Live
[CUT TO HOLOVID FOUR. WID ANGL.E OF AENEAS.]
footage can be fuzzy and is normally filmed at a bad angle. On rare
Missile impact shreds 1urret, knocking it off and back. Lcft front dips and
occasions, however, the appcarance of a TOG century will provoke an
bites into the earth, tearing a huge furtow as it tips farther onto its side.
jmmediate Commonwealih response. Once in a reporter's lifetime, if he
Nose catches and cartwheels vehicle. spilling the contents. Each impact
js lueky. the response will bcgin when he already has the canmeras rolling.
scorches the earth and nends debris flying. The vehicle begins to burn and
smoke as its progtess slows. The vehiclc finally comes to resl on its roof
after a long slidc. Smoke billows from the ruined engine.
[CUT TO HOLOVID ONE. WIDE ANGLE OF WRECK AND
HOLOVID TRUCK TWO.ZOOM SLOWLY TO RACING AENEAS.J
Wreck explodes, hurling dehris hundreds of meters into thc air.
IZOOM ON HOLOVID TWO. FOCUS ON APPROACHING
AENEAS AND PIVOTING TLRRET.] Gun TiTEs.
[CUT'TO HOLOVIDONE. VIEW OF HOL.OVID TRUCK TWO.]
Aeneas approaches from the hackground, The Aeneas emits a puff of
smoke, and Holovid Truck Two explexdes, flipping hackward. The truck
resis on its roof for a momenl, then lips over onto its left sidc.
ICAMERAS THREE AND FOUR INOPERATIVE. CAMERA
ONF PljLLS BACK.J Wolverine flies by, launehing a missile toward an
Aentcas. Profile vehicle ax it passes.
ICUT TO HOLOVID TWO. FOCUS ON TURRET SIDE.J Crest of
the Second Armored Cavalry.
[HOLOVID TWO PULLS AWAY AND FADES.] Distant view of
battle and smuldering holovid truck. Smokeihickens as the holovid fades

--- PAGE 34 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Note that this will piace the nine vehicles in a coiurmin with one hex
between platoons, In addition, the Commonwealth player should place
two civilian holovid trucks. Place the first truck on Hex 0709 of Map 3 and
the second truck on Hex 0602 of Map 3. These two trucks are shoxoting file
footage of the troop while it is serving on Ku Crassus. Because of the
reguirements of the filming, the Viper Infantry Syuads have been given
liberty for the day and are nowhere near the battle.
Special Rules
The holovid trucks are civilian, six-wheeled ground vehicles used to
film combat footage for the civilian media. These trucks are normally kept
well behind the lines and never exposedt to combat. Each mounts an array
of sophisticated holovid equipment in a single turret mounted on the van
hox behind the cab. The vehicle carries no weapons. It is slightly armored.
however, as follows:
Front 10
Stem 10
Attacker
Right 10
Top 0
Left 10
Bottom O
lst Century, 8/3241st Strike Legion
Any intemal hit that would damage a weapon destroys a portion of the
Centurion Nissus Young, Commander
holovid equipment instead. See the victory Conditions for the results of
Leadership Rating: 3
such a hit.
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
Victory Conditions
3 Aeneas Light Gray Tanks
The scenario Jasts until one side surrenders the field or all vehieles
2nd Light Grav Armor Platoon
of one side are destroyed. The TOG units realize they have an excellent
3 Aeneas Light grav Tanks
chance to deal the Commonwealth a major public relations blow, and they
3rd Light Grav Armor Platoon
wili press their initial advantage of surprise to the utmost. A Troop musl
3 Aeneas Light Grav Tanks
atternipt to rescue the civilians and deal with the sudden appearance of the
enemy.
Deploy ment
Because this action takes place in the Commonwealth teal areas, the
The Attacker may enter from any southern hex of Map 3 on Turm I.
Renegade piayer may exit vehicles safely from any side of the map.
Vehicles may enter with any facing, at any flight rmode. with a velocity no
Renegade vehicles that exit the board are not counted toward Victory
greater than the vehicle's thrust.
Conditons and may not he hrought back inlo play. TOG vehicles may exit
safely only to the south, and any vehicle that ex is may not be brought back
Defender
into play. TOG vehicles that exit any other side of the map are considered
destroyed.
A Troop, 1st Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
In addition to norrnal Victory Points, the TOG player receives five
Captain Nath'el Benenez, Commander
additional "Film Bonus" Victory Points per Second ACR vehicle de-
Leadership Rating: 5
stroyed while the cameras are still rolling. The TOG player also receives
Troop Quality: Elite
five vp for the destruclion of each holovid vehicle, plus the film bouus, if
Ist Light Gray Armor Platoon
this applies. Internal hits that affect the holovid eyuipment of each truck.
3 Wolverine Light Grav Tanks
as outlined in the Special Rules section. render that truck "film dead." and
2nd Light Gray Amor Platoon
no additional vp are received for that truck's filming. The Second AcR
3 Wolverine Light Grav Tanks
player receives one vp per turn for each truck that remains on the board still
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
able to film. The Second ACR piayer also receives five extra vp per enemy
3 Viper APCs
vehicle destroyed while the cameras are on.
The objective of each side is to destroy or drive away the enemy. The
Deployment
scenario lasts until only one side remains on the map. Norinal Victory
The grav tanks of A Troop should be placed nose to tail in platoon
Conditions apply.
order. All vehicles are facing north. The starting hex for the lead vehicle
When the scenario is over, each player totals his Victory Points. A
of each platoon is as follows:
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an arnmtnition explosion.
1st Platoon: Map 4, Hex 1314
its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destroyed" box is hi. An infantry squad
2nd Platoon: Map 3, Hex 1304
is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit is
3rd Plato0n: Map 3, Hex 1308
counted as destroyed if it exits the hoard on an unsafe side.
The Victory Level is detemined according to the nomal Centurion
rules.

--- PAGE 35 [OCR] ---
FRONT AND CENTER
LOCK AND LOAD
SITUATION: MAY 23, 6831, KU CRASSUS
- Imperial News Service interview with Samual Loys, inhabitant of
The front had settled into a period of nervous waiting. Members of
Morgan's Town, shortly after TOG occupation.
the Renegade Command knew the TOG war machine was refitting for
another merciless thrust. TOG's planetary beachhead had slowly grown
[Field report of Lictor Immicus Giorrl, posing as Gaylord Pall, broad-
over the weeks and months, with the Renegade and Commonwealth
caster for the Imperial News Service.]
armies fighting for every rock. When the respite came, the Second
Armored Cavalry Regiment used the time to reposition its troops and
"Yea, I guess they were here for the better part of two days. Kind of
rotate several groups of recruits to the front lines. These new tankers filled
quiet. Not like most of the soldiers I've seen. They even paid for the food
the depleted ranks. The Commonwealth tried to mount a counteroffen-
and drink they took from the tavern, and Bamey left last Thursday.
sive, but several key attacks failed, and the assaulr was abandoned.
"I only managed to get a view of the fighting because my truck broke
North of the TOG army was the militarily unimportant city of
down just south of town. I was wrestling with the field inverter when I
Morgan's Town. After the TOG landing, most of the inhabitants of the
spotted the Liberators setring up, It doesn't take much of a mental giant to
surrounding cities fled toward the Commonwealth rear areas, away from
figure that when a grav tank starts to tum its main gun, you should get your
the usual ravishings of the approaching 'TOG atmy. Morgan's Town had
head down. I picked that gully right over there.
once been a thriving farning town with several thousand inhabitants.
"Your guys sure were pretty, zooming up like they owned the place.
With TOG's approach, it became little more than a ghost town. The wiser
Fancy fommation, sun gleaming off the hatches, the whole package. I was
inhahitants had fled with all the possessions they could carry, The more
starting to get a bit worried till that lead Liberator unloaded on one of your
foolish stayed behind.
little tanks.
Among those staying behind were the tankers of F, G, and I Troops.
"An Aeneas? Well. whatever you call it, it sure did look neat.
Occupying the southernmost buildings of the town, they waited for the
cartwheeling across the grass.
enemy legions. About noon, the commnet exploded with reports of
"Dead? Hell yes, they were dead, Did you ever see a grav take a swift
engagenents all along the front. Captain Shackleford received orders to
intemal? Most times the driverdoesn'teven know what hit hinm. Drives go,
move out and intercept the enemy several minutes later.
thrust fails, compensators just quit. By the time that jockey knew what was
Knowing that the enemy was on the way to Morgan's Town, she
going on, he'd bounced three times, spilled half his squad, and destroyed
advanced beyond sight of the city and waited. Her position provided a
the vehicle. That sort of seemed to he the cue. All of the sudden, the air
concentrated front, allowing her to overlap fields of fire, Just prior to
was alive with fire.
contact. however, she received two miserable pieces of news from
"Oh, I guess it was a pretty good fight. The Coms were firing from
Command. The majority of her artillery support was diverted to the west
litle craters. Your guys were zipping around at a fairly good clip. Pretty
to support the Fourth Squadron, and G Troop was ordered east to shore up
soon there were Bouncers all over the field. Then the Coms started zipping
Third Squadron. As the dust of the advancing grav tanks became visible
right with you. Kind of like a ballroom dance.
in her optical sights, she listened to the fading thrusters of G Troop.
"well, what do you know. It was hike a dance. Anyway, it all ended
sort of suddenly.
"Yeakh. your guys left. The five or six that could still move, that is
The Coms loaded their wounded onto their vehicles.. - you guys don't do
that, do you? They took off and sort of drifted toward the north. Heading
toward the city, I guess.
"What? Well, I guess you're standing here because those tankers are
letting you stand here. You certainly didn't take the field, or the town, or
the planet. You just sort of got what the Coms don't have the troops to
occupy."
3f

--- PAGE 36 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Defender
14
I Troop, 2nd Squadro, 2nd Armored Cavairy Regiment
Captain Julianne Shackleford, Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Regular
1st Medium Gray Armor Platoon
3 Liberator Medium Gray Tanks
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
3 Liberator Medium Grav Tanks
3rt Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Viper APCs
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/Mortars
Attacker
F Truop, 2nd Sguadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment (attached)
ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
Ist Century, 4/324l st Strike Legion
3 Wolverine l.ight Grav Tanks
Centurion Lucas Allison-Barr, Commander
2nd Light Grav Armor Platoon
Leadership Rating: 2
3 Wolverine l.ight Grav Tanks
Troop Quality: Regular
3rd Armoret Infantry Platoon
Ist Heavy Gray Armor Platoon
3 Viper APC:
3 Trajan Heavy Gray Tanks
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/Mortars
2nd Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
Artillery Support: One Fire Misson per turn
3 Trajan Heavy Grav Tanks
3rd Arinored Infantry Platoon
Deployment
3 Romulus APC's
The Defender may set up anywhere on either map. All vehicles star
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
the game with any heading and flight, at a velocity no more than the
vehicle's thrust. Vehicles may start the scenario dug in if desired by
2nd Century, 10/3241st Strike Legion (attached)
expending one digging charge. Infantry sguads may start either mounted
2nd Light Gray Armored Platoon
in their APCs or dismounted, using hidden placement. The Renegade
3 Aeneas Light Gray Tanks
player may place additional craters on the board by expending the
required number of digging charges from any vehicle.
Deployment
The Attacker may enter the map anywhere along the southern edge
Victory Conditions
of either map at normal flight mode, with a velocity of 5. All infantry
The game lasts until only one side is left standing
squads must start mounted in their APCs.
The Renegade player may safely exit his unirs off the north side of
the map. Any unit safely exited does not count toward Viclory Conditions.
Units that exit off any other side are considered destroyed by the TOG
advance. The TOG player may safely exit units to the south or the west.
TOG units are considered destroyed if they exit any other side.
The objective of each side is todestroy r drive away theenemy. This
scenario uses standard Victory Points.
When the game is over. each player totals his Victory Puints. A
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suifered an ammunilion e xplosion.
its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destroyed" box is hit. An infantry squad
is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit is
counted as destroyed if it exits the boatd on an unsafe side.
The Victory Level is determined accurding to the normal Centurion
rules.
37

--- PAGE 37 [OCR] ---
SHARP AS A VIPER'S TOOTH
BRING ON THE NIGHT
SITUATION: JUNE 24, 6831, KU CRASSUS
Sergeant Igor Tyde glanced up toward the skyline and mentally es-
The battle for Ku Crassus had been waged for weeks, with neither
timaledt that the sun would be down in another 30 minutes. His stormach
side abte to sustain an advantage. Despite being outgunned, the Second
rolled over again, and he wondered if waiting for combat ever got any
ACR held popular support, and the TOG invaders were always hampered
easier.
by lack of secure supply lines. This was jittle help when the Second ACR
"Probably nat." he muttered to himself. He mentally went over his
faced a superior foe. Finally, Colonel Lombard allowed Lieutenant
checklist again. His suit was still in ready condition: his iaser rifle was still
Colonel P'Kim to submit plans to conduct a deep raid on a TOG commu-
fully charged: all of his equipment was ready for battle; and his stomach
nications center. The raid was drawn up to deprive TOG units of
was still in knots. He sguatted on his heeis and began to draw circles in the
communications, but the Special Forces Platoon arrived to discover the
dirt.
area more heavily defended than the commanders had thought. Lieuten-
"Try smoking."
ant Hendrix decided to continue the raid even though he was heavily
Tyde was halfway up. his han already on the grip of his I2mm side-
overmatched.
elrm, before he placed the voice of Lieutenant Hendrix.
Wearing Ranger Electronic Sneak Suits, the infantry squads of the
"Sir?"
platoon disembarked far from the conmmand center. Though the suits were
"Smoking. Sergeant. Causes cancer if you live that long, but it helps
sometimes found in Special Forces Regiments, they were not issued to
ease the butterflies yau're feeling right now." Hendrix pulled a battered
line units. How the Second ACR obtained them is anyone's guess. While
cigarette case from one of his many pockets and offered one of the long
the vehicles of the platoon attacked the communications center and the
ivory sticks to his sergeant. Tyde refused out of hahi, hut Hendrix
antenna array, the infantry squads raced through the TOG compound.
selected one before replacing the case in his pocket.
with Lieutenant Hendrix at the lead. When one of the infantry squads
"rhe final recon team just reported back. You've already seen the
finally discovered the command building, Callahan directed the fire of the
complex. I'm not sure what elsc is down there. but it bears taking a look."
remaining two Spartius APCs at the structure. Unfortunately for the
Hendrix flicked open his lighter, a real antique Tyde guessed, and drew
raiders, the TOG soldiers regained their composure and foiled the
the tobacc to life. "Yout and I will lead the boys in on foot, suits at full
attempted destruction of their command post. The raiders broke off the
power evety step of the way. Tiorga will lead an APC diversion. If
attack and fled into the night, with two Aeneases in hot pursuit. Only one
anything happens to me, you've got the team. Any quesions?n
of the Spartiuses relurned to the Comnonwealth lines, Lieutenant Hen-
"What's our primatry larget, sir? I mean, if what you say is true. there
drix was very critical in his debriefing, believing his inability to destroy
could be all sorts of hrass dnwn at that place. Lots of hrass means lots of
both the command center and the communications artay meant the
trouble."
mission had failed, but Lieutenant Colonel P'Kim praised the action as a
"Communications first, Sergeant. That's what Lieutenant Colonel
complete success.
P'Kim expects. Anything else is gravy. Thal dish is our first goal. I'm sure
Despite heavy losses by the Special Forces Platoon, the mission
they've got morc than that down there, hut that's my problem." Hendrix
accomplished the initial objective. With the communications array out,
ground the remains of his cigarette on the armored sleeve of his camo suit
the Cormmonwealth forces were abie to strike at several locations at once.
and sluffed the butt into a thigh poxcket. He let out one last breath and blew
destroying two Manus supply dumps in the coming days.
the final bit of smoke into the air.
"By ihe way. Sergeant. be careful. That suit you're wearing costs
more than the grav we've been riding.'
Tyde gulped. "Yes sir. I'tl do my best.'
.38

--- PAGE 38 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Special Rules
1. The TOG player should place [en small buildings anywhere on
Map 4. This complex is not the permanent hase for the 4/324 Ist. but it is
Lay out Maps 3 and 4 as shown. All Light Woods hexes on Map 4
being used while the reinforced huildings are being constructed. These
should be considered Heavy Woods hexes for this scenario. ln addition,
buildings should consist of the following structures:
the TOG player should place ten buildings on Map 4, per ihe Special
2 One-Story Buildings, AP I0
Rules section.
5 Two-Story Buildings. AP 20
3 Three-Story Buildings, AP 20
One of the three-story buildings is the Communications station. with a
large dish antenna located on the Toof. This should be represented by
adding one box on Level 4 of that building diagram. Because the anterna
is so large, it makes an obvious target, and the Renegade player should be
told the location of the Communications building. Another building
should be secretly designated as the command building.
2. All infantry members of the Special Forces Platoon are equipped
with Ranger Sneak Suits. designed to help units infiltrate enemy installa-
tions. These suits allow the infantry squads to remain hidden during
Attacker
movement. Renegade infantry are spotted only if they fire. paint a vehicle,
or move within three hexes of a TOG unit. Ranger suits are spotted in the
Special Forces Platoon, Headquarters Troup, 3rd Squadron,
turn appropriale, depending on the circumstance of the sighting. They
2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
remain spotted uniil the beginning of the Renegade player's next Move-
Lieutenant Callahan Hendrix, Commander
ment Phase. If discovered during TOG movement, i.e.. the TOG player
Leadership Rating: 5
moves next to a Ranger suit, the Renegade infantry is spotted imnedi-
Troop Quality: Flite
ately. Note that it is possible for the Ranger suit 1o fire and then disappear
3 Spartius APCs
before the TOG player can react, depending on the [nitiative Roll on the
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
next phase.
3. The Lupis command vehicle is identical to the Lupis Armored
Deployment
Personnel Cartier cxcept that the command vehicle mounts additional
The Attacker may enter anywhere along the southern edge of Map
communications equipment and upgtaded computer memory banks.
I, with any facing and tlight mode at velocity tno more than the vehicle's
Digging cannons are removed to make room for these addilions, For this
thrust. Infaniry squads may start mounted in the APCs, or they may enter
scenario. the vehicle acts as a nomal Lupis without digging cannons.
the board separalely, as oullined in the Special Rules sectinn.
Infantry soldicrs required to serve on these vehicles have nicknamed them
Trenchfaots.
Defender
Victory Couditions
2nd Century, 4/3241st Strike Legion
The game lasts until all memhers of the Renegade force have either
Centurion Cladius Hanes, Commander
exited from the western edge of either map or are eliminated. The
Leadership Rating: 3
Renegade player may begin exiting units only after destroying one
Troop Quality: Regular
building. Any TOG vehicle or squad that exits the board is considered
Headuarters Platoon
destroyed.
1 Lupis Command Vehicle
In addition to nomai Victory Points. the following additional vp
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
should be awarded to the Renegade player:
Ist Light Gray Armor Platoon
Command Building:
3 Aeneas Light Grav Tanks
+ 40 if destroyed
2nd Light Grav Armor Platoon
+ I5 if daniaged
3 Aeneas Light Grav Tanks
Communications Building:
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
+ 20 if destroyed
3 Lupis APCs
+ 10 if damaged
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/Mortars
Communications Antenna:
+ 15 if destroyed
Deployment
When the game is over, each player totals his Victory Points. A
The Defender starts the scenario on Map 4 with any facing, grounded
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explosion.
in craters. No Digging Charges need to be expended for digging these
its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destroyed" box is hit. An infantry squad
cralers. All infantry squads should be placed on Map 4, but they may not
is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit is
be placed inside APCs.
counted as destroyed if it exits the board on an unsafe side.
The Victory Level is determined according to normal Centurion rules.

--- PAGE 39 [OCR] ---
TO THE RESCVE
JUST LIKE THE DAYS OF OLD
SITUATION: JULY 31, 6831, KU CRASSUS
Recently declassified debriefing of Captain Mathews, following
As with many campaigns against T'OG, local resistance fighters
action on Ku Crassus, July 12, 683l.
played a key roll in providing information and assistance to the Common-
wealth armies. Such a life was very dangerous, especially when operaling
... We were asked to do the impossible. It was about that simple. An
behind TOG lines. The Lictors raised suspicion and paranoia to new
MP cohort had rounded up three memhers of the local resistance. I guess
heights, and every soldier was alert for signs of the guerrillas.
you could call them guertillas. The MPs were rather proud of themselves.
Such vigilance was rewarded when three top members of the local
and the local headman was fit to be tied, I was told that one of the prisoners
resistance were captured during a predawn raid on a local state house.
was his daughter. The rescue attempt seemed to be more of a political
Several people were killed during the capture, and the Military Police
mission than a military one. I mean, we had no intelligence worth the term
commander ordered Centurion Chappee to take the prisoners to a deserted
and the location of their "jail"' couldn't be pinned down any closer than a
farming complex west of town. The movement of the prisoners to a rural
20-square-kilometer area. The topper. though. was the time frame.
location calmed the local populace, but it also provided ihe Common-
Sixteen hours. We were almost seven hours away, under the best of
wealth with an excellent opportunity to recapture the prisoners.
condirions. and this certainly didn't qualify
Moving swiftly, local leaders asked Colonel Lombard to authorize
At any rate, the Old Man wouldn't take no for an answer, and looking
a recovery raid. Although initially hesitant. he was finally persuaded
back, I'd say he was right, We'd put a lot of time and effort into local PR.
when the local headman admitted that one of the prisoners was his
so I guess it wouldn't do to let the resistance lose three of its best officers.
daughter. Colonel Lombard knew the damage such a prisoner could cause
We picked up an extra Viper from the reserve to transport the prisoners
to the resistance. Her interrogation could crush the resistance in the
back to our lines. J figured the extra firepower couidn't hurt. and the Old
Second ACR's area. Lombard assigned the dangerous mission to Q'Troop.
Man gave us a blank check to accomplish our mission.
whose commander had presented Lombard with several theoretical
As it turned out. the travel took ten hours. By nightfall. Lieutenant
scenarios on hosiage rescue months earlier.
Judson and I were able to work our way onto a series of bluffs overlooking
Captain Mathews accepted readily, and the plan was launched. For
what appeared to be an old farming complex., We gathered what informa-
the next 24 hours., l.ombard prowled the halls of his command center.
tion we could and began working on the plan as we headed back to the rest
awaiting word from Q Troop. when word finally came, it was not good.
of the unit.
The prisoners were rescued, but at the cost of three Wolverines lost and
We had to hit the ground roiling. I outlined the plan to the rest of the
the other three severely damaged. Only two of the Vipers returmed, one so
troop over the commnet as we headed for the farm. It was the first battle
badly damaged it was scrapped for spare parts.
in which I didn'r feel the usual butterflies in my stomach, I guess there
wasn't any time. Once we buttoned up, the tanks that survived didn't
power down until we were back ar camp.
We came screaming in from the west, which was their rear. I had the
old "Green and Gray" at 120 decibels. Nighi had fallen, but that didn't
really matter. We dropped our squads and kepi the Toggies busy until
Judson finally found the prisoners, We managed a quick scoop, snatching
Judson's sguad and the prisoners at the same timc. First Platoon took the
rear guard, finishing off the buildings, and we took the lead heading back
to the west. A couple of klicks down the road, we regrouped, swung north.
and headed for home.
I suppose it was rather like the old days. I mean the ancient days.
when the cavalry came riding into town to save the day. Loads of fun, but
sir. if you ever need someone to d that again. I understand L Troop is
eager for the opportunity.

--- PAGE 40 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Deployment
The Defender may deploy anywhere on Map 4. Vehicles may start
with any facing at normal flight, with velocity To more than the vehicle's
Lay out Maps 3 and 4 as shown. In addition. the TOG player should
thrust. Infantry squads may start mounted in their APC's or they may be
place four buildings on Map 4 as outlined in the Special Rules.
placed separalely. using hidden deployment. In addition. the TOG player
must place the prisoners and the four buildings of the jail complex as
Dutlined in the Special Rules.
Special Rules
1. The TOG playcr should place ihe following buildings anywhere
on Map 4, Ail buildings must be placed within four hexes of each other.
The buildings are as follows:
1 Two-story building, AP I5
1 Three-story huilding. AP 15
1 Three-story building. AP 20
1 Three-slory building. AP 25
2. The 1OG player should secretly note the lucatisn of the prisoners.
Attacker
revealing it only when thc Rcnegade player enters the building with an
infantry squad. 'I'o control the prisoners. the Renegadc player must
Q Troop, 4th Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
climinate all TOG units in the same hex as the captives and enter the hex.
Captain Humphry Mathews, Conmander
The prisoners renain in control of thc Renegade player, moving with the
Leadership Rating: 3
rescue force. Should the rescuing unit be eliminated. the TOG player may
Troop Quality: Regular
recapture the prisoners by moving onto or thruugh the hex containing the
Ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
captives. Unless in a building or in a hex with  TOG infantry unit, the
3 wWolverine Light Grav Tanks
prisoners are considered under the control of the Renegade player. 'T'he
2nd Light Grav Armor Platoon
movemenl restrictions of the prisoners may cause a rcduction in move-
3 Wolverine Light Grav Tanks
ment for the restuers.
3r Armored Infantry Plaloon
3. Centurion Chappee has received strict orders not to kill the
3 Viper APCs
prisoners until they havc been interrogated by the L.ictors. To reflect this.
3 Squads Bounce Intantry wfl'vLGs
the TOG player may not fire on the prisonern until they have been
Appropriated rescue vehicle (attached)
discovered by the Renegace player. Once initially rescued, they may be
I Viper APC
treated as a normal crew cuntcr. with ia movement af one hcx and no
firepower.
Deployment
The Attacker may enter anywhere along the western edge of Map 3.
Victory Conditions
with any facing and flight mode and a starting velocity of I6 or less. All
The game lasls until the Renegade player either escues the prisoners
infaniry sguads must start mounted in their APC's.
and takes them off the western edge of the map or retreuts off the rmap
without the prisoners. Rescuing the prisoners is worth Ioo Victory Points.
Defender
The Renegade player may exit unils only off the western side of the
map. Units that cxit any other side are considered destroyed hy TOG
2nd Century, MP Cohort/324lst Strike Legion
patrols. Units that exit safely are not counted toward Vietory Conditons.
Centurion Adriatna Chappee. Commander
The TOG player may exi units safely off any side of the board, Units that
Leadership Rating: 2
exit may not be brought back into play.
Troop Quality: Regular
When the game is over. each player totals his Victory Points. A
1st Military Police Platoon
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explo-
3 Aeneas Light Grav Tanks
sion, its crew is dead, or the "Vehiele Destroyed" box is hit. An infantry
2nd Military Police Platoon
squad is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casuallies, Any unit
3 Lupis APCs
is cuunted as destroyed if it exiis the board on an unsafe side.
3 Squads Bounce Infantry
The Victory Level is determined according to the normal Centurion
3rd Military Police Platoon
rules.
3 Lupis APCs
3 Squads Bounce Infantry

--- PAGE 41 [OCR] ---
WELCOMING COMMITTEE
JUST A LITTLE BIT LONGER
SITUATION: AUGUST 4, 6831, KU CRASSUS
Captain Erika Caiburton grimaced and involuntarily ducked as the
The arrival of new equipment on a battlefield has always been the
200rmm shell overpowered the rear shields and slamrmed into the rear
cause for much interest. When the new item is on your side, soldiers flock
deck, causing her craft to skip slightly forward. She closed her eyes and
arournid, wanting to see the latest developments. Radical design changes
wondered, for the hundredth time since she'd commandeered the Labie-
and advanced technology always cause much anticipation. Everyone
nus. if this was just the stupidest decision she had ever made or if it was
wants to see the new item, but nobody wants to use it. New pieces of
more serious than that.
equipment are almost universally disliked, no matter how much better the
'Tink. get us out of here! I've got some low hills to the southwest. Get
this beast over there!"
although some legions, most notably the 13379th Strike Legion, have
She did not wait to see if her driver had heard. Irnstead she shifted her
excelled at the task. Still it falls to some unlucky soldier to prove that a
viewscreen lo show the rear, Her smaller tank had finally managed to
bright young engineer really knew what he was doing back at home.
escape the pack of Trajans that had dogged her path for the past few
Failing to provide that proof can be fatal.
minutes, It seemed more like days.
When the new equipment is on the other side of the gun sight,
She gripped the sides of her cupola more tightly as Tink guided the
however, there is no hesitation. That new item is the most precious thing
craft along the roxcky tertain, She was going to lose her lunch, but there was
on the field. A grav tank is no exception.
no way the Trajans would manage a shot. She keyed the comm set.
Introduced for battlefield testing five years ago, the Labienus has
" Able Six, Able Six. This is your Little Buddy. I regret to inform you
seen fighting on several fronts. The only vehiclies the Commoriwealth has
that we have a situation."
been able to analyze have been wrecks, The prospect of capturing an intact
"This is Able Six. Please advise."
Labienus was tempting, even if it was still in the heart of TOG territory.
"We steppcd into something big. Able Six. We've gol two bushels of
Optio Erika Calburton contacted a member of the resistance and
trouble cutting us off. Rendezvous at Alpha is negative. Please reroute."
promised the Commonwealth a new Labienus if the Commonwealth
"I copy Little Buddy. Hang on. and I'll be right back."
helped her defect. Colonel Lombard agreed, and the plans were made.
"Oh, this is prime." Caiburton muttered to herself. She bit her ip and
Calburton's plans were discovered as she attempted to leave the security
clulehed her stonmach. Combat was OK. She never got sick or even too
compound. TOG pursuit forced her to flee much farther south than she had
frightened, but this was something totally different. To be hunted like an
pianned, resulting in a missed contact and a nearly fatal delay.
animal was worse than she ever imagined. Tink seemed to be handling
Calhurton's contact was the elite A Troop of First Squadron. The
things well enough, though. He was weaving through the hills at break-
privilege of capturing the first intact Labjenus naturally fell to the glamour
neck speed, eyes wide. smiling like he was on a Sunday outing.
troop of the regiment. Captain Benenez could not help but feel, however,
"Little Buddy, this is your six. Head for Omega-lota-Gamma. We'll
that this simple meeting would be anything but simple.
be late. but we'll be there. Hang on, and we'll see you home. Six is out."
"You heard the an. Tink. Get us out of here, and hand me your
haversack. I think I'm going to be sick."

--- PAGE 42 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Defender
Elements of 2nd Platoon, 3rd Century, 3024th Security Cohort
Lay out Maps 2 and 3 as shown
Optio Erika Calberton, Commander
Leadership Rating: 2
Troop Quality: Regular
1 Labienus Medium Gray Tank
A Troop, lst Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
Captain Nath'el Benenez. Conmander
Leadership Rating: S
Troop Quality: Elite
Ist Light Grav Amor Platoon
3 Wolverine Light Grav Tanks
2nd Light Grav Armor Platoon
3 Wolverine Lighr Gra Tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
Attacker
3 Viper APCs
3 Sguads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
4th Century, 3/324lst Strike Legion
4th Light Grav Recon Platoon
Centurion Hadrian Amrani, Commander
3 Seeker Light Grav Tanks
Leadership Rating: 2
Troop Quality: Regular
Deployment
Ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
The lone Labienus may be placed anywhere within ten hexes of the
3 Aeneas Light Grav Tanks
eastern edge of Map 3 with any facing. at normal flight, with a starting
2nd Light Grav Armor Platoon
velocity of 12 or less. The first three platoons of A Troop arrive from the
3 Aeneas Light Grav Tanks
western edge of Map 2 at the start of Tum 2. The Fourth Platoun artives
on Turn 3 on the northern edge of Map 2. The Commonwealth tankers
lst Century, 4/324lst Strike Legion
arrive at any flight level and facing, with an initial yelocity of I6 or less.
Centurion Giorg Daily, Commander
No tnits may begin grounded, and all infantry begin the scenario mounted
Leadership Rating: 4
in APCs.
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Heavy Grav Amor Platoon
Victory Conditions
3 Trajans Heavy Grav Tanks
The game hinges on the Labienus, whether it is destroyed or exits the
2nd Heavy Grav Armor Plaloon
map. This defecting vehicle may not exit the field until its escort arrives
3 Trajans Heavy Grav Tanks
during Turn 2, and it may exit only on the west side of the map.
The Renegade player may safely exit vehicles to the north and west.
Deploy nent
The TOG player can exit to the east and south. Any vehicles that exit off
The Fourth Century may enter anywhere along the eastern edge of
the wrong side of the map are considered eliminated. Units that exit the
Map 3 on Turn l, with any facing at normal flight and a starting velocity
board safely are not counted kward Victory Conditions and may not
of 16 or less. The First Century arives from the eastern edge of Map 3 on
retum to the conflict.
Turn I with any facing and normal flight at a starting velccity of 8.
[f the l.abienus cxits the field, the Renegade player may claim
victory. no matter what the outcome of the rest of the fight. If the Labienus
cannot hold out until the arrival of A Troop, standard victory rules apply
If the Labienus is destroyed, each player totals his Victory Points. A
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explo-
sion, its crew is dead. or the "Vehicle Destroyed" box is'hit. An infantry
squad is considered destrayed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit
is counted as destroyed if it exits the hoard on an unsafe side.
The Victory Level is then delermined according to the normal
Centurion rules.

--- PAGE 43 [OCR] ---
ACID
TEST
DOING THINGS THE HARD WAY
SITUATION: AUGUST 23, 6831, KU CRASSUS
"So, do I understand you correctiy, sir?"
The Office of Military Proc urernent has always been one of the most
"I believe that you do, Centurion."
lucrative in the TOG army. Purchasing billions and billions of talents of
"Sir, I understand that this is highly unusual. I have never disobeyed
equipmen1 resuits in some of the largest deals in the government. Com-
an order in my life..."
petirion among the contractors is sometimes as ruthless and vicious as the
"Which is why you have just received this one. Now altend to your
fighting Dn the battlefield. Critical battlefield tesiing can often sway the
duty, Centurion, Believe me, I can make this worth your time ard effort."
final decision of the military procurement office, and a timely resuit can
Legatus Tyrmander saluted sharply and watched his Centurion leave.
be worth any price.
"You realize, of course, that such an operation will be hard to cover.'"
The TOG decision to begin testing of a new medium armored
Legatus Tymander turned and stared at the rotund man seated in rhe
personnel carrier set off a flurry of activiry among vehicle contractors.
cor'ner of his office. Although the man had not beer there two minutes
After years of prototype testing and numerous reviews by the procure-
before, his sudden arrival did not overly concem the Legatus. "Snake"
ment board, the TOGSOG (Terran Overlord Government Strategy Op-
was a fixture of the legion. Despite his impressive girth, he moved with
erations Group) is nearly ready to give its final recommendation to the
quiet and ease.
Procurement Office. The final decision on the new medium armored per-
"Of course, but it does not matter. Few would guestion my decision.
sonnel carrier of the entire TOG army will be made shortly. and the only
We have been far too timid. A little aggressive recon can only help our
two vehicles in the running are the Labienus, produced by Padgham
Industries, and the Hypaspis. produced by Omicron Unlimited. Although
"They are, my Lord. My agents have confirmed the arrival of one
the two vehicles are very different, insiders say the two designs are in a
Troop, or Century, of the Second Armored Cavalry Regiment. They are
virtual tie for the final cntract.
moving into position even as we speak,"
Padgham Industries decided that TOGSOG needed another re-
It never failed to irk Tymander that the best scouts in his command
minder of the virtues of the Labienus, so the company paid for a recon
could spend days failing to discover the [ocation of the enemy, bur Snake
mission, Payment of front-line officers during a battlefield test is not a
could pinpoint their location in a matter of hours.
new phenomenon in the TOG army, and so this was not that unusual. Fietd
"l have no reason to doubt your military reports. What of the
agents of Padgham Industries began pumping contacis, and finally the
money?"
arrangements were made. A Legatus in the 3241st Strike Legion was
Snake smiled, then laughed out loud.
bribed to authorize a simple recon rnission into enemy territory. Though
"Of course, Legatus. Your account has already been credited. Should
the centuries involved were kilameters away from their normal operating
your little field test prove favorable, a bonus has already been approved.
positions and the command structure of the entire cohort had to be
Should your Century actually win, the bonus will be doubled."
reorganized for the day. it was finally set up. Three platoons, two made
"Excellent. I will keep you informed."
up entirely of the new Labienus. set off to find the enemy. Unfortunately
"You need not bother, Legatus, I will inform you." Tymander glared
for Padgham. they diseovered D Troop of the Second Armored Cavairy
at the fat man, but Snake had already levered himself from the chair and
Regiment.
tured to go.
"One day, Snake. you will push too far."
"No, Legatus, as long as I carry these talents. I will always push just
far enough."
rt

--- PAGE 44 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Defender
D Troop, Ist Squadron, 2nd Arrnored Cavalry Regiment
Lay out Maps 1 and 2 as shown. For this scenario. all Heavy Woxds
Captain Xerxes Ovemund, Commander
should be considered Light Woods.
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Medium Grav Armor Platoon
3 Liberator Medium Gray Tanks
2nd Medium Grav Amor Platoon
3 Liberator Medium Grav Tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Viper APCs
3 Sguads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
Deployment
The Defender may deploy anywhere on either map within twelve
hexes of the northern edge, with any facing and flight, at starting velocity
no tmore than the vehicle's thrust. Vehicles may start the scenario
Attacker
grounded and dug in by expending one Digging Charge. An lnfantry
squad may start the scenario either inside its APC or grounded separalely,
lst Century, 3/324lst Strike Legion
using Hidden Placement.
Centurion Marcus Olivetti, Commander
Leadership Raling: 2
Victory Conditions
Troop Quality: Regular
The game lasts until only one side is left standing. Renegade vehicles
Ist Medium Grav Armor Platoon
may be exited to the north. and TOG vehicles may exit to the south.
3 Horatius Mediumn Grav Tanks
Vehieles that exit the proper side are not counted toward Victory Condi-
3rd Armorcd [nfanty Platoon
lions. Vehieles that exit other sides are considered destroyed.
3 Labienus APC's
The object of each side is lo destroy or drive away the enemy. For this
3 Squads Bounce [nfantry wfmortars
scenario, the Labienus Gra Tanks are worth 1& Victory Points instead of
the normal 13. ln addition, any kill recorded by a Labienus is worth five
3rd Platonn, 3rd Century, 3/324lst Strike Legion (attached)
extra Victory Points.
3 Labienus APCs
When the game is over, each player totals his Victory Points. A
3 Squads Bouncc Infantry w/'VLGs
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explo-
sion. its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destroyed" box is hit. An infantry
Deploy ment
squad is considered destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties. Any unit
The Atlarker may enter anywhere along the southern edge of cithet
is counted as destroyed if it exits the board on an unsafe side
map with any facing, at normal flight. with a starting velocity of f. All
The Victory Level is determined according lo the rirmnal Centurion
infantry squads must start mounted in their APC's.
rules.

--- PAGE 45 [OCR] ---
SNAKE PIT
CHILD'S PLAY
SITUATION: SEPTEMBER 14. 6831.
KU CRASSUS
-Testimony of Lieutenant William J. Arthur. Military hearing of
case #17449-P, concerning events occurring on or around September 14.
The Terran Marshal Napoleon once said that an army marches on its
683t. Ku Crassus. Captain Pollianna O'Fallon, defendant.
stornach, It was true when he was leading infantry troops firing flintlocks.
and it is just as true today, when 12mm caseless is the standard. Getting
The day started off tensely. When dawn broke, most of us were still
vital supplies to men and women in the field is critical. lt is often stated
awake. The front had kind of shifted away from us, as it did several times
tha1 battles are won and lost in the supply bunkers, hot on the front lines.
during the campaign, We had been at our posts for the better part of 24
These supply slores are the cause for great conicen. on hoth sides of the
hours. powered down and barely moving. Most of that time was without
line.
sleep. The men were beat, and I told the Captain so. We probably could
During the battle on Ku Crassus, the TOG Legatus began dispersing
have gotten the rest we needed, but at that moment, the Captain got word
forward supplies in small caches. instead of stockpiling quantities of
over the comm net that we were almost 5s klicks behind the front lines.
goods at one location. as is the TOGi standard. At first, these stockpiles
Rather amazing. considering we hadn't moved in over two standard days.
were heavily defended, making theni unappealing targets for Cummon-
but like I said, things happened like that.
wealth attack, but as the hattles strelched on, these localions became imore
Just that quick, we were up and moving. No destination, jusl move.
and morc appelizing. Froni-line uinits previously g uarding the stores were
we had covered abuut 30 klicks, at a crawling pace, when the Captain
rotated out, and auxilia were uscd for replacements. Aerial recon gave the
calls over the TC's comm net "I have a larget. Follow my lead." That was
Commonwealth commanders an excellent idea of the location of these
all, Our batle plan was "foilow my lead." Some of us tried to protest, but
depots, but the Commonwealth army was rarely in a position to do
the Captain blasted any objections over the open cireuit. straight away.
anyihing with the information. Occasionally, however. the Common-
Titlermain seemed the most upset. He wouldn't let it go. Most of his
wealth were able to raid these bases.
points, hell, all of his points, I agreed with. but the Captain threatened to
During a lull in the fighting, M Troop of the Fourth Squadron
remove him if he didn't keep quiet. Sir, I can tell you there isn't anything
powercd down and allowed the front to pass it by. Although the troop was
much worse than losing your command, whether it's a squadron, troop.
not likely lo slip into the Legion's rear areas, is presence in enemy
platoon, or lank. behind enemy lines. so the Lieutenant signed off and that
territory was too good for the Commonwealth commanders to pass up.
was that.
Quickly searching references and military data bases. Caplain O'Fallon
We went about another len klicks aund sputted a TOG supply area. It
discovered she was very near Supply Depot #37. Although her Executive
looked lightly defended, but then again, what can you really tell when
Officer disagecd. she elected to atack the lightly armed base with her
you're already picking your approach lanex and sighting on your firsi
entire force. She unknowingly played right into TOG hands.
target?
Cenlurion Brillans had laid thc trap carefully, knowing full well
Just then, the Captain yells 'Charge!' and I swear if I'd have had a
there was a Commonwealth unit of century strcngth opcrating somewhere
saber, I'd have drawn it. But we just surged ahead. We had a great time
in the area, As commander of the area's security, he nceded to make surc
shooting up some bouncers. their APCs, and a couple tons of supplies
the tanks of the Second ACR wcre nol roaming around. Hc. therefore.
when Tillermain comes over the comm net. His voice was as calm and
devised a plan to bring the enemy to him. The plan worked far too wcll.
controlled as I've ever heard when he said 'Captain, if you'll laok to your
left and right. you'll see the rest of the century's come to play.' Things kind
of got fuzzy right about then. The Captain started yelling at the Lieutenant,
and the Lieutenant was yelling right back. Hell, if that missile hadn't
ended their fighting. I would have, About then, sumebody sounded the
recall, and it seemed like  real good idea."
A.M.

--- PAGE 46 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Deployment
The Third Platoon sets up anywhere on Map 3. The L.upis APCs may
start at normal flight mode with any velocity no greater than their thrust.
Lay our Maps 3 and 4 as shown. In addition to the normal terrain
They may not begin grounded. Infantry units must start the sceario on the
features, the TOG player should place several buildings on Map 3 as
ground, using Hidden Placement if desired.
outlined in the Special Rules section.
The First Platoon enters the map from any eastern hex on or after
Tum 3. Vehicles may enter at any flight mode, with an initial velocity no
more than 6.
The Second Platoon enters the map from any western hex on or afrer
Turn 3. Vehicles may enter at any flight mode, with an initial velocity no
more than 6.
Special Rules
I. Prior to the start of the scenario, the TOG player should place five
Building counters on Map 3 to represent a suppiy dump. These supply
caches may be placed anywhere on the map.
Building # I: 2 Stories, AP 20
Building # 2: 1 Story, AP 30
Building # 3: 1 Story. AP 40
Building # 4: 2 Stories, AP 30
Attacker
Building # 5: 2 S1ories. AP 25
M Troop, 4th Squadron, 2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
2. Centurion Brittans commands from venicle I3 of First Platoon.
Captain Pollianna O'Failon, Commander
Until his arrival, on or after Tum 3, the ToG player has a Leadership
Leadership Rating: 3
Rating of 1.
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
Victory Conditions
3 Wolverine Light Grav Tanks
The scenario lasts until all units of M Troop have been destroyed or
2nd Light Grav Armor Plaloon
have exited to the south. This taid occurs deep behind enemy lines., and
3 Wolverines Light Grav Tanks
so any Second ACR vehicle that exits from a side other than the south is
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
considered destroyed. The TOG player may safely exit vehicles fron any
3 Viper APCs
side of the map. Vehicles that successfully exit the map are not counted
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/TVLGs
toward Victory Conditions.
[n addition to normal Victory Conditions, the Renegade player
Deployment
receives additional Victory Points for the destruction of the supply hexes.
The Attacker enters from the south side of Map 4 on Turn 1. The grav
Building #2 is worth 10 vP: Building #3 20 vP; and each of the others is
tanks are in nornal flight mode, facing north, and may start with a velocity
worth I5 vp.
of 16 or less. All infantry units must start inside their APCs.
The Attacker may retreat only after one supply hex has been
destroyed.
Defender
When the game is over, each player totals fhis Victory Points. A
vehicle is counted as destroyed if it has suffered an ammunition explo.
3rd Centary, 6/3241st Strike Legion
sion, its crew is dead, or the "Vehicle Destroyed" box is hit. An infantry
Centurion Malcolm Cassius Brittans, Commander
squad is considered destroyed ifit suffers five or more casualties. Any unit
Leadership Rating: 4
is counted as destroyed if it exits the board on an unsafe side.
Troop Quality: Regular
The Victory Level is determined according to normal Centurion
lst Medium Grav Armor Platoon
rules.
3 Horatius Medium Gray Tanks
2nd Medium Grav Amor Platoon
3 Horatius Medium Grav Tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Lupis APCs
3 Squads Bounce Infantry w/mortars
Onboard Minefields - 2

--- PAGE 47 [OCR] ---
IEN NUNIS . S!