--- PAGE 1 [OCR] ---
5105
RENEGADE
LEGIO
EGIONN
ROLE
GAM门

--- PAGE 2 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
AGOGGGGGGGGOGGOGG
ROLEPLAYING
Roleplaying games are a social activity very similar to improvisa-
TYPESOFADVENTURES
tional plays. They are a form of recreation in which the people involved
havetothink ontheir feet.Theseplayers (yout)arepresented with visions
Ar times the game consisis-of litule more than a"shoot and loot"
of alien worids and circumstances, and your participalion helps further
tdvcnlunc, where charsciers only.nced to shoot struight, whetherexplor-
define these worlds making them more "realYou have to react.
ing a ncw plinct or liberating an old ally from n Impenal siave camp.
appropriatcly to strange and wonderful situations, and to the culture tn
Danger runs high in these adventures, and a great deal of thc fun is in
which you are playing. You help creale a shared funtisy world with
secing how closely you can skate to the brink of disaster before pulling
"fanlasyused here to denote anything truly fantastic, not just worlds
through successfully.
brimming with magic-and dragons.
Other roleploying adventures are less bloodihirsty,but not any less
The Gamemaster-the person who organizes the gamcbecomes
entertaining, Often dubbcd"'character nunscalmeradventures revolve
director, set designer nnd all the extra cast members in this ongoing
around your ability to act in chanacter and to accomplish things without
creation. It is his (or her) job to sct the scene for the players, He must
violence.Adventures afthis type range from conning an Imperial official
provide descripltions,plots,and challenges for the gane.Healso acts out
into leing you see classified plans,while preicnding to bc a mcmberof
the part of all the extra characters involved everyone from Jowly
a super-secret Imperial task force,which explains why he's never beard
beggars and shopkeepers to alien warriors and pinnetary warlords.ltis not
of you or simnply playing out an evening at the Centurions Club.
necessanily an casy job, but peiforning it well enough that the others.
Character nuins help define and develop the personalities of the characters
enjoy themselves is very rewarding.
bcing playod This is imporuant because character developnent is the
The players,usuallytwo toeightofthem,eachadoptsandenters this
soul of a role playing game, just as it is in a play on stagc.
worid through the persona of a character he creites.This character could
Most adventures.combine both combat missions and character nuns
be anything from a nortmal human to a bizarre alien with multiple limbs
into onc or more gaming sessions, Typically these adventures begin with
and bonvamor.Characlers also have divergent backarounds and hidden
churacter play that puts the players in the position of wanting or nceding
motivarions- ofien the only thing you know about anothcr player's
tocompletea certaln mission.While at a cocktail party,you overhear an
character is what he tells you himiself.and that doesn't haveto be the tnuth.
incautious conversation regarding bluepnnts for a secret weapon. You ll
Players may.cndup playing a chancier.of differcnt sex,species,agc or
need to raid a renegade base on the nearby moon to get the blucpnnts,so
background,and it is their job tomaketheir character act asappropriately
you have.to "acquirea ship,somehow.Then you'll set up the raid and
as they can.
work your way through sccurity. And finally, you want to locale your
In playing the gameitself,the Gamemnster providestheplyers with
prize and cscape in one piece.
all the descriptions and clues needed for their characters to explore the
Dangerous stuft.
world he has crealed. He also determines when dice come mto play.
Orsi?
That depends on how you approuch the problem. Some piyers just
WHAT THEDICE AREFOR
strap on their lasers and head out for n savagc series of bauiles Other
players talk their way onto a ship and intothe base,bluffing somcone into
Dice are handy because they help answer any question not already
giving them the blueprints, Most players, however, choose a middle
known by the Gamemaster,Can you hit your target? Where is the target.
course:something along the lines of tolking thcir way onto a ship.then
anyway? What happens if you miss  where does the bullet ricochet?
covertly infiltrating the base and stealing the prints without anyone (still
Dice provide an element of chance: plans and theones are good for
livingl) being thewiser.
deciding what should happen, but only the playing fieldwhere random
chance plays an important pan can delermine what realy happens.
THE RESTOFTHISBOOK
In chess,forexample,weall know thata rook can takea pieceon the
same row'or column provided no othet piece blocks fts line of attack.
As you read through this rulebook you'll be taken step-by-step
There is no chance that the ullacked picce, be it a Queen or lowly pawn.
through the process of creating characters, leaming how to use skills and
can somehow fight the altack off. The result of each move in chess is
leaming how what you want to do translates into the game mechanics of
already predetermined.
the 69th century. Laler in the book you'll be shown how to create
In a roleplaying game,on the other hand, things are not soclear cu.
scenaniosof yourown,and you'll begiven plenty of background informt-
Yes, it is true that a lone character armed with a rine shonld be unable to
tion to make that possible. Throughout,you'll be able tofolow the career
bringdown a strafing aerospace fighier-but ifhishand is steady,his aim
of Brennus Africanug a Too pilot) and Althea Connor fa Renegade
tnueand thedice arekind,itmiht happen lt would be a tnuy heroicevent
agent),two characters who will be used as cx amples to help you along.
and heroic events are the heart of roleplaying gaines.
Welcome to the worlds of the Renegade Legion!

--- PAGE 3 [OCR] ---
OOOGGGGGGGGGOGGGL
LIGHTINGTHE FUSE
With the last snapof detonator wire Into the cable all thcexplosive
the linger, evch though the reading fromn the gogcles remalned negative.
charges werefinallyser in place.Thirough it all,the Centuryof Deliverers
With tho Inst comer of the titanium plate on the Deliverer still fed-
of the 2567th RenegadeLegion had remained guiet.Now the tallerof the
hot,the taller man weanly gathered up his equipment and motioncd for
twomcn stoopcdtofinishfusingthelastceranicplatebackinplace,while
them tostart walking bucktotheir Bgus gray-sled Anocher jobdone,But
dhe other one scanned the arca forany movemcntThe blnck clothine and
somcthing was wrong this time. Alrcady they hod becn too curelcsst the
camounage makeup hid thcm well.All this time an untrained eye would
noisethesafetylock,thefactthatevennowthcywcrewalkingaway from
have seen nouing unusual.Just a formntion of grav-tanks laagered hull
the laager slowly Tike they had nothing to worry about A man of his
down for the night. It Wouldn t be until sometime tomorrow that the
kpenence knew that such mistukes could be unforgiving. Funous at
steering cables would disintegrate from the deionations,canusing tons of
himself forhaving allowed dis,thetallerman reached with his nehthand
titanium-amored tanks to carcen uncontrollably to cenain dcath.
anddrew hisown weapon.He signalled forhis lookoutto watchtheirright
Suddenly the lookout's light-enhancing goggles plcked up a brier
fank,whilehe quartered the dim outline of ground to their left,methodi.
shaftof lightcuting intothedarkness forymetersaway.Jtwusthebatile.
cally checking one seclion al a time for any dunger.
red glow froin thc inlenorofa tank, showing for justa sccond as a hatch
The burren, wind-swept tertain roseup steeply from the laager, then
opened and closed.Accepted procedune called for a halt of operations if
dipped down in a convenient liitle fold A distance of 1oo mcters
any movement was detected within the laager,butthe lookout saw that his
separaled the Rencgade tanks and the hidden grav-sled that meant
parner had onlya few more cenlimetersto go and chose lo lethim finish
successfulescape.
Withthethin beam ofthemal radiation continuingtosiiently mcldarmor,
Fifiy meters from the sled, the tall man's eye caught a shadowy
the lookout pulled out his Smn ncedle pistol and gripped it tightly.
movement justoff to the left, an ann hurling something in the air. In that
The last tank's control plate wns almost secure now,The slow
split-second, his eyes strained to sce more in the pit of night, Then
precision of the man's work meant more time out in the open, but it also
everything burncd white. The blazing flash from the grenade rocked his
helped ensure that no one would detect any tampering luter on, In fact.
body and seared his vision. Just like thnt It was over. All the intcnse
only ifthey knew exacdy what to look for would anyone cver see that the
training,all the previous success had conedown to this, One mistake too
prolective plales hid been removed.
many.
Then the lookout suw his mistake The safety lock on his pistol
Flcchette rounds ripping tnto hin, the saboteur let out a valiant cry
should have been checked before they went out He thumbed the safety
and squeezed oft as many rounds as he could in the dinection of thut one
button off and the Toud click stariled both men
movemcnA Toc soldicr to the very end at least he knew he would not
Thetallerman sawthedruwn gun and immediately tumed tofacethe
diealone:
darkness, The lookout nervously swiveled his head back nnd fonh ncross
The steering cables on the griy-tanks down below would sce to that.

--- PAGE 4 [OCR] ---
GOGGGGOGGGOGGGGL
Each Legionnaire playermust firstcrcate a character.In mostcases
character crealion However a GM is not restricted to.active servicemen.
the character will be an active member of eiher the TO,Common-
and if he wishes he can have his playerscharacters (orplayer-charac
wealth, or Renegade Legion military.This character,through whom the
ters,"often abbreviated "PC retire from the.military and take on
player will adventure in the universe, is defined by numbers that corre-
civilian roles in socicly
spond to a variety of attributes and skills. These altnbutes and skills, in
Character creation requires several things, Thefirst and most impor-
tum,detemine how able and capable the chiracier is to perforn all sorts
tant are a pencil and a piece of paper.Photocopying the Character Record
of tasks during his adventures. Adding personal details for thc character.
Sheet (from the back of the nules)is a good ides because it can be used to
record the final choices you make with your chiracter. Until those final
which is helped along by the Carecr and Fame sections of the rules, will
tound the character out, making him more interesting ind likely to
choices are made, however, writing things down on scrap paper might be
succeed.
a good idea.Aneraseron thatpencil mightcome in handyas well.Lasty.
CA shon note here, regarding personal pronouns In general, he
you'l nced two l0-sided dice.(lt should be noted that the O on a lo-sided
"his"and"himwill be used when referring to players or characters.This
die is always read as a loy Through out these rules, one TOG and one
isn't intended to suggest that women (or female characters) can't or
Renegade churacter will be used forexample purposes,
shouldn't play Leglonnairewe hope they do, the more the merrier.
Creatingacharacteris amalierofseveral simple steps.ltis important
However,"himher,""s/he.""hisserand aliemating usageof"she"and
that these be followed in their listed order. The steps are as follows:
"heseem more distructing than they are sociallyrelevant.Pleaseassume
) Determnine Primary Attnbules CAgility,Charisma, Constitution,
we mean everyone. regardless of the pronoun, and pleasc do not be
DextrityIntelligence,Luck,SpeedandStength),SubjectiveAtunbuts
offended by it.)
(Name,Sex,Species,Allegiance,CareerPath,andStartingAge).Special
When designing a long-term campaign, the Gamemaster (GM)
Attributes (the Edge and Prestige), and Physical Description (pp,10-15).
Modifications in these altnibutes for playing Alien Characlen are
Usually will have a specific lype of character in mind for play.That is to
say, the GM mieht want to run scenarios that are belter suited for
described on pp.16-17-
Legionary infantry, rather than Naval officers, Some campaigns are
2) Select your charucter's Skills (pp. 24-33). possibly using a
designed for Intelligence operutives, rather than Interceptor pilots, Thc
predesigned package (pp.34-39).
GM should inform his players,beforetheystartcrealingchnicters,what
3) Determine your character's ending Rank (pp, 40-47)
types of characters he's looking for.
4) Roll on the Experience Charts (pp.48-S4) until your.character
Legionnaire assumes that all plaver-designed chnracters have mili-
reaches that ending Rank, checking for injories when necessary (pp, 55-
56).
tary tining and arc part of an active militaryunit.This is a dangerous
univense that they live in, and such skills are reguired for almost any
SyUsing your Prestige (pp.18-21yand anything else your GM gives
adventure, In fact, previous military expenence plays a large pat in
you, outfit your churacter with Equipment Clisted on pp.57-93).

--- PAGE 5 [OCR] ---
GGGGGL
GGOGGOGGG
CHARACTERATTRIBUTES
In Legionnaire ench character has eieht primnry aitnbutes, six
The sccond spccial altnbute is Prestige. In its present form it was
subjective attnbutes that are assignod by the player, and two special
developed byDavid L.Ameson,and is used with his pemission. Prestige
atinbutes.
feflecis a character s repufation among othens in the Renegade Leglon
Theprimaryattributes-Agility.CAG).Charisma(CH.Constitution
universc,t accrues from fanily background,military unitand service.
fCN),Dexlernity(DX),IntelligenceCQ.Luck LK,Speud (SP,and
and success on adwentures, Prestipe can win you that audience with the
Strength (ST)-renect yourcharacter s inherent abllities,If your charac-
Planetary Governar, or it can bc your downfall when fomcr.comirades
ter is an alien,some ofthesc will be modified,for exhmple,a four-lcgged
From the unit you betrayed come hunting for yod.
alien is likely to be significandy faster han a bipedal human,hence have
Your military rank is delemnined liter in the characler creation
a grealer speed value These atiribules will nlso be modified by skills
Process
during play and win helpdetermine in which skills your characler will be
most adept These atinbutes will be explined more fully below.
PRIMARYATTRIBUTES
The subjective altrbutesName,Sex,Specles,CreerPath,Alle
You can chose your character's primary attnibules in one of two
giance, and Age.arc choscn by you at any time you wish.Thcy greatly
ways,The first method is to roll two 0-sided dice Chereafter"2Dio)
help.toroundoutyour chanicter.
Add together the two numbehs you roll (giving a value between 2 and 20)
The first specinl attribute is called the Edee and is a reflection of thut
and that becomes the basic value for that particular attribute,This mcthod
intangible difference between tnie heroes and normal individuals Cgcncr-
injects a nindom element into the process and is very quick.
ally referred to as"Non-Pluyer Character orNPCs",The Edge will
The second method is to begin with a poolofpoints and allocate them
allow your chiaracters some freedom from the whims of chance, bul ia
lo the yarious atunibutes as you wish. If this method is choscn, you havc
cannotbecountedupontosavethem from theirown,ortheirplayer's,lack
Ss points lodivideamong theelight atributea from Agility to Strength,No
of perception in every situation.
attributecan havea valuebelow S or above l7 ifthis mcthodis usedNole
that the B8 points you have here is exactly the number of points you get
bymultiplying S cthenumberof primaryalinbutes)by 1l (theaverage roll
of 2Dioytha advantageto this method is that you can tailor a character
for a paricular mission or campaign An infantryman is generadlly more
useful if he can shoot straight and take lots of damage than iche were a
charismatic esg-head.
Players need ndt restrict.themselves to one method over the other.
Rndomly rolling attibutes can produce some unlikely combinations
resulting in interesting characlers As noted above, deliberate construc-
tionofacharactermeansalwayshaving an individual suitedtoaparticular
miision Alicmnting methods as needed is also a good idea
Each primnry alinbuteisexplained below..
AGILITY(AG)
Agility determines acharacter s ability with gross motor skills.This
covers everything from perfomming corectly at a ceremonial dance and
mnrtinl arts to dodging laser firc on foot or in a spaceship.
BrennsTl fags him as exactlyaverage in this category.Athea's
6 aes her worse yet rollerskaring.ten sports and drhing gray
Vehicles are nor her long suits.

--- PAGE 6 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
CHARISMA CH)
INTELLIGENCE(IQ)
Charisma is the atiribute thal measures both physical attractiveness
IQ determines what skills a chanecter may select, as all skills have
(espccially within your own spccies) and force or nature of personaliry in
minimum IQ requirements before thcy are available.Ir is also the base
general, While only a mother could love a KessRith, anyone can appre-
valuefor the Perception skill, successful use of which can point out what
ciale the wisdom of one of their leaders, The alien species hove Charisma
dhe GM's subdle clucs have failed to revcal.
modifiers because the game is seen from a human viewpoint, and most
humans hnve adistaste for anything alien, Still,it should bc realized that
Brennsdgainproves toberarhererceptionaluirhhisOofls.This
these modifiers do not apply between two members of the same species,
Places him rmby ta the eenius clacsand meaius there is lirtle he  Mnable
and mighieasily be tumed back upon humans to see how they are viewed
fo nderstand.Ahhed s 14marts her asincredib/y briehtar wel and
from the other dircction
makes her a walucd asser to the Renegade Underground.
Ar loeach,Brennur and Althed are average looting.and they have
A quick note should be made here aboul character Intelligence
Ho personaliry traits thar would afend or attractd member of ariy oher
versus player intelligetce.A Gamemaster may find dhere are times when
sapicht race.
the players are off their game and thelr nonmally brilliant characters are
not picking up even blatant clues. Thosc are the times to employ a
CONSTTTUTION (CN)
Perception skill check to givethem the infonmation theyneed for the game
The cnment level of a character s constitution s importunt bccause
to continue.On the flip side of thntcoin.huving a smirt playertake on the
it delemines if n character is dead or aliwe, conscious or unconscious.
role of a less gifted character can be ereat fun, especinlly if the player is
Given the state of weapons technology in he 69th century, only good
willing to bite his tongue and follow along when the othcrs make incomect
body armor stands between an individual and death when hit by a military
assumptions based on the evidence provided.
weapon, When nfles shoot projectiles designed to pencirate a Grav tank.
there 's not much in a human body that will even slow thc slug down.
LUCKLK
Once a character's CN has dropped to O or less,that character
Luck is the altributewhich covers everything from Divine Inlerven-
becomesunconscious and is possibly dying Fortunately.given the state
tion to Karmic Retribution,It sepanates the living from the tnjured ordead
of medical technology, death miay only be a temporary state, depending
when a heavy Conmonwealth fighter waltzes through on a strafing run.
on the cincumstances, With a sufficienily skilled doctor and the proper
Tt determines how well a character fares at a gambling house orif he gets
facilities,a character can tecover from aimost anything, He might nol
oneofthosefunny feelings"whenabouttostep intoan ambuish.Luckcan
come away with all of the parts he had at birth,but hell be alive and most
make or break mlilitary caneers ora person's life.
of thoseparts can be reerown
Brenus once again proves to be ercepnonal (badj in thir category
Brenmus has a CN of 14,This is a refection of his proper dierand
Hisluctts3.Thisprobablymanifestsitsef.inhircase,whenhiswingman
crercise when raised in a Wealrhy aniby, as ell as his ne military
sugfers an cngine failire jusf ar the enemy fighiers close, or when a pilor
fraining.He can take some dapidge before he souf of the fiehr whuch, in
wipes our chefighter recovenyboys onta capitalshiprighrbefore Breruus
his chosen profesuian,ts nofa bad thing-Althea has a C of lo which is
lands.Alchca,on the other hand,hasa Luckof/4,which beipsexplain
a touch befowaveruge.Ths could be aproblem,as many weqpos kict
how she has surwived as a Renegade agent in very hostile ferritory for as
our enough damage to kil her tnstantby,Luckily for her,personal body
lonaarshehar.
armor Es available to prevenr thar sort of thing from happening all the
fime.
SPEED(SP)
Speed reflects a character's flatout land speed and reaction time. In
DEXTERITY (DX)
an attenpttochudepursucrs ithas its obvious uses as wellWhen adie roll
Dexterity defines a character's abilities with fine motor skills It is
is nceded to determine if a chancter has time to react to a surprise
basic to detcrmining how well the characier shoots a weapon,rewires a
situation, this is the mitnbuie to check against Note: Some of the alien
comiputer,or perfoms the microsungcry necessary to reattach a severed
specles have Speed modifiers that are followed by an"L"or"R".These
limb to the body it came from
stind for Land Spced or Reaction Speed and mean that the modifier only
adjuststhataspectofSpeed.
Brernus sf8inDXasdetermincdbyarandomrollof2Dlo,meair
ke's d crackerjack shor with a hand-held weapon or when piloring Ais
Brennms hasa/3forSP.which miakes him fairlyquick buAlhea's
Spiculum spacefighter.Athea'rloisby nomeant shabby,and she sgor
Izputs hint to shame./does motmedtshecanployparycakewitha Higer.
a cooy hand when ing a personal weapon She, Aowever puts her
oralwayssnaichthedinnerawdyfrondcobra,butsheisfastand,arfong
Deterity fo wse as a fechnicia who can fake apartor pat bdck fogether
arshe s Mor ruaing an ohstacle coursefhere her AG would conic into
(with modificarions)almiostany pieceafhardhdre she can get her hands
play)she'll be hard lo carch.

--- PAGE 7 [OCR] ---
AGOGGGI
GNGGG
SUBIECTIVEATTRIBUTES
Your character's subjective attributes are up to you, subject to the
approvalof theGM.
Thcre are no particular advantages to one choice or anocher.in these
caicgoncs,outknowing whatdhey are hcipsestablish thecharacterm your
mind and helps you roleplay the chanicter.
NAME
This is an obvious but impotant detail of any character Thc style,
complexity and sound ofacharacter'sname can convey importantdetuails
abouthis personality and status in a culturc, Romanizod names are uscd
in ToG by theupperclass.Slaves nomally only havea single name.The
same can be said ofthe CommonwealdhA characler named Reginald
Alexi Ramoran IV will more than likely have sprung from some Com-
monwealth aristocraric family,while Blind Joe is probably a member of
the underclass.
The two characters who are used ln the examples come from
diferent backerounds and their nimes reflectthis Brennus Afncanus is
from a rathcr.famous TOG family, hence the romanization of his'numc.
Althea Connor is from a more comnon hurman fanily on the same World
s Brcnnus. Herfamilyisunusual inooe respect,howcver,andthat is chal
they ane connected with the Renegade Underground and actively work to
bring TOG to its knees.
ALLEGIANCE
In Legionnaire chanacters can either hold allegiance to TOG, the
Commonwealth,the Renegade Legions, or (mrely)to some oherentity
such as the Free Traders, Por character generation purposes,a Rencgade
Legion character is trealed the same as a Commonwealth character.
Allegiance should be used as a general guide to a character's.
STRENGTH ST
sympathies rather than a goad to force a player to toe the party line, If a
Strength indicates how strong a character is and how much force he
character's loyalty is to ToG, for example, it does not mean he must or
will immedintely comply with the wishes of anyone directly above him
can exert when performing a task. It hss three specific functionst
LjningMultiplying ST by S gives.the mass (in kilograms)a
inthechain ofcommand Pew.TOwamorswooldnskcertaindeuth just
charictercan liff on a nomal I gravity worid (where a kilogram is roughly
to win.their Gentunon another commendation.
And let there be no question about it,allegiance can shiftduring the
2 pounds).
ThrowingMultiplying ST by 3 gives the distance (in meters)
course ota campaign.
character can throw a I kilogram object on a normal 1 eravity world. He
Brenu allegiance is to TOG Althed's allegiance is to the Rene-
can throw half a kilogram twiceas far and two kilograms half that far!
JumpingMuliplying ST by 1/2 gives the distance (in mcters) a
gade Legions.
character can jump with a running start, on a normal l gravity world.
Without a running start characters can jump half that far.
CAREERPATH
Most occupied worlds in the Renegade Legion universe have a level
Players should determine at this point what path their careers are
of gnvity very near to the Temin nonm.On those which don't all three
going tofollow.The GM should have input here.Forexample,ifhewants
of the above factors are proportionally adjusted For example, on a 2-
to run a campaign where the players are members of mn Interceptor.
gravity.world,multiplySTby2.5 (not5)tofind the mass acharactercan
squadron, he will prefer that his players chose Naval rather than Legion
lin,muliiplyST by1.S(not3jto find how farhecan throw onekilogram,
careers for their characlers.
and divide ST by.4(not2)tofind how farhecan jump with anunning start
This helps you create your chiuracter since it provides some rough
idea as to what skills and career packages he may have. It also provides
Brenn s Strengerhof l3sabiraboveaverage.bur thar sapproprt.
somedepth to characters, reflecting theirgoals and ambitions within the
ate fora hoble who har the furvryof being able to train for hir career in
military or intelligence services, Further, the career path you selected is
rhemulitary.Alrheasstrength oflois iusra hair belowaverageburnor
important in determining your character's eventunl rank in that branch of
cnouigh thar anyone woud morice. Please nofe rhat Alhed did nor lase
the military.
Strength brcddse she is emale:Toggies mighi nof consider femiales
tual, but these rules do

--- PAGE 8 [OCR] ---
OGGGG
GAGGGL
Nearly all career paths can be chosen by a chinacter of any alle.
gince the Rencgade Legions, TOG, or the Commowealth. (if your
chnricier's allegiance is, for example,with the Free Traders pick the
TOG CW or RL branch in which he received hisinitial military training.
If he did not crain with any of these thrce, you ul have to work out'the
details with your GM.) The paths are as follows:
Navy
Fleet
Fighier
Manine Aerospace Corps (Commonwealth Ouly)
Technical Support
Legion
Combat-Armis
Technical Support
Fighter(TOGOnly)
Itellieence Services
Deep Cover Agent
Insurgency/Counter-Insurgency Agent
Couner
Since all characters are assumed to have some military background
even players thal are considening civilinn charactens should select the
career path that their character followed when in the service.
Brennus selects the Navy Fighter] as his career path, wdnnine to
pilo fehtersin spacebarilesfoetendtheuehro TOG i spdce.A/thed
has elected InsureencwCounter-Insurgency as her path, hopig rha ir
Wtl provide herwirh the background and sails for laterwork Ln he
Renegade Underground.
SEX
This atiribute is very important because TOG does not treat women
SPECIES
as equals.Woinen are by lawnot allowed torise vcry high in TOG society
This is a very imnportunt subjcctive atnibute, one that will havc a
and it is prefered thal thcy stay honeto raise children.This can be traced
direct effect on youtr character It detemines to which of the Human or
back to the fact that 2000 years ago,around 5000 (give or take a century)
alien mces your character belongs. Humuans get ao attribute adjustments,
the Snow Plague wiped out 8og of Humanity and most of the survivors
since aitributes are figured on a humnn-normal scale. Alien characters
wcre conquered by the KessRith ad the Ssor It took more thin 13o0
have xenobiological modifiers that increae or decrease particular attrib-
years for mankind tothrow off theirplicn masters, As a result,most of the
utes,These modifiers are discussed more fully in Alien Chnraclers.
TOo citizenry are xenophobic and are very concemed about maintaining
a sufficient population base to insure that Humanity never again falls
Brennus andAthea.forthe sakeofsinpliciby.are bothHunan.This
under alien dorninance, Thus the idea of any woman staying long in the
gives thent an advanlage while operaning in TOG space as TOG is
military is anathema to them,The Commonwealth,and to a lesser ektent
renophobic, with reason,as noted in the brief histony.
the Renegades, have a more liberal atitude conceming both alicn spocies
and womcn.
AGE
The age of yourchaicter can be an important altribute since it helps
BrenmustsmaleandArhea Isfeniale
detenmine sone of the things he can and cannot do. At its most basic a
charicter who is underage (as deennined by the laws on each pardicular
PHYSIOALDESCRIPTION
woridy could be unable to conduct business cr go certain plaoes.
Your character also needs to be fleshed out in a physical sense.
Running a character thnough the chnracier generation process (pur-
Giveit some consideration,then write down hisheight,mass,hnirandeye
ticularly the Caneer Tables) will add to his age, so chancters start the
colors, and any unusual features. Becanse the Renegade Legion universe
generation process at 17 years old CTenan Standard), Note that the
is such n diverse place, do not be afraid to add interesting detail to your
selectionofa skill package (sce Cnreer Packages)also agesa chuaracter.
characters, such as their hnir being wom in a peculiar style or that.
TheGMcan makeexceptionsifaplayerwantstoplayachantcteryoungcr
according to tradition, this charncter always wears a blnck elove on his
or older chan'thad.
ight hand, Small details Tike thnt help make a chanacter more real and
distinctive, You mighi not know why the charactcr wears that glove,but
Forthe moment,beforethey re borh runthrough the Career Tables,
you can probably igure it out somewhere along the line and lerthat fact
Brenmus and Althed will start the process ar I7 years of age.
cnrich yourgame world,

--- PAGE 9 [OCR] ---
GGGI
Ewen thaugh ere only parhwoy through the character creation
When Edge points are tised,they only go away until the end of the session
process, you can Tell certain things about our hwo sanple characrers
or adventure. CYes,a Gamemastercould allow Edgeregeneration in mid-
already.andstarttobuild in yorrmfadwharrhey fooklikeandwhartheir
stncam, but that would be solely up to him, if he does,plnyers should take
personaliries are lite.
that as a waming that their characters are in way over their headsl)
Physically.Breur Africdnls Is slighrby Mnder average heigh bu
hasnormialmass(lo7cmand&stilosJHeissiallbutstocbytorepresent
Brennws.fike mastcharacters.tarts wirh a negaie Edee.Hie ts-1
hs relatiwey heh Stnenethand Corstinno and sr mae himsuitable
fadicerollof12,muirms13]anddoernormedn thattheGMfcancallback
fobeapllor.Hesgorbrownhatr.browneyesadanaqullineRomiannose
a cruciat die roli the player has ade and force hia fo mnake antothcr.It
(withou beneir of surgery/l.Aside from his hawknase.he'snotgor any
Just mieons thar Brenics har lo earn hir woy up to poritive Edge.Althed,
Horiceable physical trair or scars.As Is rhe srwe,he Is cleaa shawen
on rhe orher Fiad, has ar edee of +2 (having rolled a 15y This hetps
Bremnur is a deadewe shor with any weqpon he 's been trained with.
accolt for how she has sunvived with her poor Agiliy.
His high intelligence is iportanr,buarbecause he cones from a famous
PRESTIGE
faiy(afocr rhat would novaly beworked aar between yoi and your
Prestige is a measure of a character's reputation and/or noloniety.As
GM).heis somewhalarrogant.Thenagain,heisa TOG lovalist,othars
a character successfully completes more and more missions, his Prestige
Nasofar from averuge,anywy.Howeer.hisinellecrisofen rglected
in ciriosiy.and rhar's nofa/wans.d good thins.
will increase. During the course of a game the characler can use his
Prestige to get additional help,equipment or other aid from his superiors.
Althea is a tallslender red-head ti o cm and oo kilosj who still
He can also stake his reputation on completing a mission in order to
moves withagawby coltishness,as ifshe is notyetased to heradultbody
increasethe nommal Prestige award See Prestige for more on how it is
faccounting for her poor AG.Her epes are an lnusnalshade of blue-
green, nor enough to make her remartable, but a mehorable feature.
ncauired, used, and awarded in the game.
A starting character's Prestige always begins at o. This can increase
Shes Rof a quict muind and wialmosran aalmal cuning and she is
averygood indgeofcharacter.HerLuckhaskeprhersafein brishes with
over the course of the chanacter generation process, but it is possible that
TOG security persopnel,dnd harewen goren her Aired torepair some of
your.chnracter will begin play.with no Prestige.
their eguimew when the biurealicracy moves fao slowly for rhe local
FILLINGTHE CHARAGTER SHEET
connander's liking.
Ouict with her hands, her intellieence Mmiakes her wery good at
spoming troible, borh inside machines she's to repair and out in the real
NAMEALLEGIANCEAND CAREER PATH
Worid. Her neaction ime is excellent and,coupled with her dexteriby.
List your character's nime in the furst blank."Allegiance"is either
she s ane of the ew people capabfe of successfully druwing a weapon
to TOG,the Comimonwealth, the Renegade Leglons or (nirely) to some
aeainsta foe who has the drop on her and actually gelting cn acciurate
other entity. such as the Free Traders.
shovof first.
ATTRIBUTES
SPECIALATTRIRUIES
Por each primary attribute, list is current value (modified by any
alienspecies modifier)
THEEDGE
DESCRIPTION
Once the primary attnibutes have bcen deiermined. it is tine to figure
This section lists the subjective attnbutes you choose for your
a value for the Edge.The Edge is always givena valuc by starting with the
character,and is self-explanatory.
rollof2Dio.Thetwo dice are rolled once only-what you see is what you
get As withtheother altributes, it ispossible to increase the Edgeover the
ARMOR
courscof play.but to begin with.you startwith theroll of2Dio.From that
This is the place where you note what type of armor your character
roll sublract 13 The resulting number, positive or negative, is your
is wearing.Equipment lists the armored combal suits available, and the
charicier's initial Edgc valuc
characler shcet reflects the AP (Anor Factor) proltection each suit can
The Edge reflects the difference betwecen player characters and
provide to the Head, Upper Torso, Lower Torso, Anns and Legs of a
NPCshe difference between heroes and he restof us, Pach pointof the
character.Because personal body amor is so important, it is best to makc
Edge canbuya new die roll during a game.The limitations on this are
sure, at the beginning ofeach adventure, thit you update your character
as follows onby one reroll can be bought at any one time,and the number
sheet with whatever your churacter is using.
of rerolls than can be punchased in any gaiming session Is limited to the
stanine value of a character s Edge Rerolls cannot be purchased for
PRESTIGEPRESTIGE USED
another characler.A GM,if he finds himself bneaking an adverture into
"Prestige lists the amount of prestige you have available at any
multiple sessions of play.maydecideto streich a single cycle of Edge use
time this will change from adventure to adventure,"Prestige Used  lists
throughout the adventure, regardless of the ntimber ol sessions the
the prestige that you curently have at dsk, usually in the forn of
adventure tokes, though he must spell this out at the beginning of the
equlpment that has been checked out or borrowed from company stores.
adventure so players don't souander all of their Edee fn the first session.
"Prestige Used can never be higher than "Prestige."
Edge use is simple.Acharacterneeds lorolla loorlessto hitatarget.
He rolls a 12. Buming one Edge poinc he rerolls the dice and gets his 1o.
EDGE/EDGEUSED
He could then roll for hir location on his target and reroll if he did not eet
"Edge lists the current valuc of your Edge. This number may be
thc head shot he wanted, provided he hnd anodher Edge point to bum.

--- PAGE 10 [OCR] ---
GGGGL
Usedlists the number of times you have usod your Edge in this adventure
you must first use it well a'certain numberof times. Each time you do so,
lo get a reroll for your chracter,"Edge Used'can never be higher than
youli note that use in this column Sufficiently Difficulr Succcssful
"Edge "if "Edge" is negative. you can not use any Edge at all.
Rolls'are more completely described in Adventure Points.
APS
WEAPONS
AP's is the nbbreviation for Adventure Points. In the course of the
This scction lists the weaponry your character is carrying, All of the
game your character will earn ndventure points for successfully accom-
details about each wcapon, including.
plishing missions and for roleplaying within thc ndventure. As you will
the amount of damagc it does,
leam in Adventure Polnts,charactens are allowed to increasc atnibutes
+the numberof shots it hs per clip und the mumber of shots already
and skills because of their Advenbure Point totals, which retlect their
used in dhe cument clip.
growth and the leaming experiences of their ndventures.
its modifiers to offensive and defensive rolls cif any).
the target modifiers for Short (S),Medium (M and Long CL)
TALENTS(T)
Ranges (for nanged weapons).
This refers to the amount of money your character has available to
and any other details must be noted here, As well,if the ftem is
spend. This is, in essence.your liquid capital or small change, depending
supposed to be hidden, like a knife in a boot, or a small gun in an ankle
upon your perspective. To detennine the sturting value, roll 2Dio and
holster,the location on the body should be given here.
multiply the result by 1oo, If you happen to roll doubles (the sume
nomber on each die) the amount is still multiplied by 1ooo,but represents
PROVISIONS
monthly income from a family trust fund,a govemment stipend or some
Notedown hereallofche other iiems yourchuracterowns orhas bcen
other source of money-possibly including paymcnis from cncny gov-
issucd As you progress in the gume,this list can get rather long, so it is
emments.ororgnnizatons.
often limited to the ftems he would nomally have on his person texcept
amor and weapons, which are listed elsewhere Longer and more
Brennus and A/thea start out wirh T/7.000 and T12.O00,respec-
detailed lists of eguipmnent being used on a'specific adventure, or stored
tiveby.
in thetnunk of a Gravy car or on the family estate cin be kept on'scparate
shects of paper.lfit isn'tlisted somewhere,your GM mny oot let you have
SKILALS
an item when you most need it.
This section lists all the skils your chanicter knows.List each skill.
Oftcn the provisions available to a party of chanactens tre eoverned
along with your initinl level of ability in it "SDS Rolls refens to
by what is availableforaparticulsrmission,as well as other factors,such
Suficiently Dificult Successful RollsToimproveyourlevel in a skill
as the characiersPrestige.

--- PAGE 11 [OCR] ---
ALIENCHARACTERS
One ofthe more interesting aspects ofmany roleplayinggames is the
ATTRIRUIEMODIFIERTARLE
ability to create and run charnctcrs that are noc human Alien species
Race
DX
ON
CH
AG
SPSST
provide characiers with different abilities, perspectives and goals, The
Banrin
seven non-human races are.descnibed more fully on pp.156-176,with
KESSRHA
14(L)+5
emphasis on the culure of each species, but the genenation of alien
Menehagorean
characters is covered here, along with a bniefdescniption of cach race.
Naram
Playing an alien character looks like an easy way to gct extra points
Ssord
+4(R)-3
in the attributes most important to yon,and that it is,However,it will also
Vauvusar
+4(R)-3
be demanding of you as a player beciuse the Gainemaster will be looking
Zog
+3
for you to run the charncter appropriately to his race., While a Humian or
Zog churucter could casily abide polite insulrs at a cocktail party, a
KessRith or Menelvagorean couldn t That's not to say that neither
CULTURALLY-TAUGHTSKILLS
restraint nor an understanding of politics is possible for thosc races, but
theway thcy rcstrain theniselves,or what they do later lothe person.who
The following are skills that come naturally to each race, All
insulled thcm, should be differeot from a Human's approach to the same
characters of a race are assumed to have level l in cach skill listed for that
situation
riceThis first level does not cost n skill pointit was leamed at un early
agc, before the chancter reached matunity, This means that an orphan
ATTRIRUTEMODEIERS
Baufrin raised by humansin theComnonwealth will norhave Electronics
ora Repair Tech skill for frec. On the otherhand,an ophan huinan rised
First, alien crealures differ from Humans in that their staning
by Batifrin monks would acquire those skills Cand if the playcr can put
altnbutes receive bonuses or penaliies because of their different phy-
together a good story,possibly one or two others).
siologics. An tncreasc or decrease in an attribute does not make an alien
chanacter better or worse thnn a Human character overalljust better
Baghin
Elecironics, Repair Tech (choice)
suited to doling certain things or handling certain situations.
KessRith
BladeTachics(choice)
A playcr should decide to create an alien creature before he stirts
Meehagorean
Martial Arts(choice)
rolling attributes or lissigning points to attributes Try to avoid automati-
Naran
Seduction
cally.tuming ST19 or 20 characters into KessRith just because the
Ssord
Bureucracy Protocol,Swindline
KessRith's +5 ST bonus gives such a character.4 damage points in hand.
Vanwusar
Negotiation, Protocol, Scuba, Strategy
to-hnnd combat, Accentunting thc positive alinbutes of an alien is a
(choice),Swimming
natural tendency.but the game wilt be more fun if you allow aliens the
Zog
None
same variations in atinbutes that hunans have.
The Aitribule Modirer Table lists the seven alien races descibed
in thisbook andthenodifiersacsociitedwithcachafthem.Thenumbens
indicate how the starting atinbute should be mcdified to attain the true
initial value.
Onde the modified vnlue has been detemined usethat number Inall
future calculationsncluding the caloulationto improve healtnibute.For
examnple a Bnufrin'soriginalatinbutesofCN1 and CH l are modifed
to CN16(i1+S)andCH6(11-5).When he wantsto improvehis
Constitution by one point (to17), he'1l have to pay 34 (2 x 17) Adventure
Points, On the odher hand, when he wants to improve his Chrisma by 1
point (to 7),he'llonly have to pay 14 (2 x 7) Adventure Points
SeveraloftheSpeed modifiershave(LJor(R)attached(L)indicates
that this modifier pplies only to Land speed CRy tndicates that this
modifierappliesonly to Redctionspoed.When tmprovingan alien'ssplit-
value Spced attnibute,averaeethetwovalucs (modifedandunmodified).
and pay thc cost of inproving that average valuc.If a Ssoran's Speed is
11,15 (+)for Reaction,avenge 1 and 15 (giving you 13) and pay the
costto improvefrom 13to14.(28:2x 14)

--- PAGE 12 [OCR] ---
GGGGUGGG
AGGGG
DIHFICUTSKILLS
MENELVAGOREANS
On the other hund, the following are skills thal individual ruces have
Mcnelvagorcans are tall, blue-skinned creatures with bony skin
difficulty with, This reflects such things as the Inability of a KessRith to
(akin to that of an ammadilloy,three eyes, and a tail Theyare very long
seduceverymuchofanything,(even anotherKessRith,mostofthetime)
lived wariors.if they don'tdie in combatfirst.Their eves can see in thc
cor the Narams phobia of living in urban metropoli, When checking any
ultraviolet range.Each hand has three fingers and a thumb,allending in
of the skills listed for your aliencharncter's race (or when modifying any
razored talons, They are lacitum and dislike worlds where the normal
target number with the levels of one of these skills), you must add an ad.
temperature is below 120e F. Their homeworld lurks in the remnants of
ditional die to your roll.If you leum a difficult skill for your race,note that
a nebula, so its night sky is as almost as hnght as he daytirne-which
hat skill is"+I dieon your character sheet so that you won't forgct it.
means they re a bit uneasy in the darc.
NARAM
Baurin
Brawling/Pugilism, Martial Aris, Wrestling/
Club
Bounce Pack Operations, Seduction, Gaote,
The Naram are a very Human-like race, Generally taller, more
KessRitA
slender and more atrictive than the average human, only expensive and
Swimming.Zero-G.Ops.Zero-G Martial Arts
difficulr DNA mapping can actually distinguish betwcen Humans and
Mene/vagorean
Reseirch,Xenobiology
Naram. While evidence on both planets suggests that Humans and Naram
Naram
Intcnogatlon, Urban Environmental Survival
Cryplography, Mountaineering/Climbing.
evolved independently,the fact that they can interbreed and look so much
Ssora
alikehas fueleddebateconceminga.comnnon ancestorforthetwospecies.
Swimming
Vauvusa?
Ambush,Seduction,Swindling
SSORA
Zog
Negotiaticn,Research,Seduction,Swindling
These bipedal creatures look much like intelligent terestnial dino
BAUFRIN
saurs The Ssoma havc two tluree-fingcred hands and a prehensile,forked
tail Ssora believe in strong central control and organizationas is
The Baufrin are an insectoid people with mandibles, six eyes, and
evidenced by the fact that these egg-laying creatures pair for life, This
fivepairsofmobile limbs.Theyare,inmanyrespects,a human nightmare
makes the socinl order in TOG very attractive to the Ssona, though they
scuuling along on the six lower legs,which they use for movement.Their
have trouble dealing with TOG's general xenophobia Often described as
heid and thorax are connected to their abdomen at an upward-bending
devious,Ssoraareunswervinglyloyal tofricnds,which makes theinone
right angle so they tike on a centaur- or KessRith-like appearance. The
of the more dependable species.
upper two pairs of limbs function like handsthe upper pair being used
for delicate close work while the longcr, lower pair is used for work
VAUVUSAR
nequiring strength. Their 3 pairs of eyes are each sensitive to a different
range of light, so they can see better than humans but their ear sacs are
The Vauvusar are four-anmed, bipedal alicns with a tail Their eyes
less developed, so their heaning is poorer than human hearing.
are set on eiiher side of their enoroious headmuch likea hammerhead
shark.Because they evolved from amphibious creatures used to grazing
KESSRITH
on surfacc-loating crcaturestheirheadis largcly mouththeir brains
sit in theupper partof theirchests, A Vauvusar's arms are notparticularly
Build a burly centaur from the body ofa rhinoccros, add the head of
strong.butthey arecapableofguickmovemnent-soquick.infactthatno
a Tyrannosaurus, cover it with the skin of an alligator, and you ve got a
Wisc human plays in a card gamc with a Vauvusar dealer.
KessRith Bony plates.cover him from head to lail including his back.
breast and arms (treat as An armor Factor of 2), Dark gray to green in
ZOG
color, his smile is lined with sharklike teeth-naking this incredibly
strong creature very fearsome to look al From a clan-based society.
Zogs, an exiremely rare'species today, have been likened to a short
KessRith are warniors who adhere to a code as stnict and stranee as the
gorilla upholstered in Gila tmonster skin Zogs have strength out of
Japanese code of Bushido,They are consummate wamions and fierce
proportion with their small size.Their three-fingered hands are suitable
enemies of the Empire
formanipulating controls created forhumains,Whilefierce-looking.Zogs
are known for being laid-back, some individuals mistake this ability to
ignore a human's emotional tirades for stupidity.Zogs are, in fact,guite
bright,yet they tend to be secretive about their raccwhich areknown to
molr every 16-20 years In a painful and private ceremony.
INTERRREEDING
The ooly species capable of interbreeding are Humans and Narain.
In the case of such a hybrid, roll iDio, If it comes up.odd, the child
reseinbles the father  evenit takes after tts mother.It will have the
appropriate attribute modifiers (if any) for whichever species it most
resembles.

--- PAGE 13 [OCR] ---
PRESTIGE ANDFAME
Two anributes in Leglonnalre are Prestige and Fame, They are
What good nre Prestige and Pame in the Renegade Legions uni-
developed from a conccpt by Dave Arneson.
verse Characters can use their Prestige Points to borow specialized
Prestige Points measure how well regarded a character is by those
cquipment or suppornt Prestiee Points can nlso lead to promotions and
who serve with him and above him. Sevel factors might influencea
commendations. Faine is not as directly useful unless a character is
characier's beginning prestige In the gaine, these factors can affect his
preparing for a career in politics, It is more of a roleplaying tool, to help
Prestige Points, usually for the beier his fimily's prestige, his unit's
the GM and players mcasure their characters'popularity outside of the
prestige, and dhe steps his career took prior to the start of the game.
military.Fame might be useful, when mallying a populace to insurection.
Furthermore a charucter can increase his Prestige during play.
it might be hanmful ff  character is recognized while undencover.
FamePointsmeasureacharacter snotonety-how wellheisknown
outsidehismilitaryunit.Many characters,especiallythose working in the
GENERATINGINITIALPRESTIGE
Underground may have a great deal of Prestige, but very limle Pame.
They aretrying very hird tokeep it that wayfame and recognition spell
At the stant of play.characters have no Prestige Points This is altered
death for such characters.On the other hand, some characters flashy
as thc characters pass through the Prevlous Experlence tables), where
explolis (on or off the battlefield!) may have boughi them widespread
they can attaln recogniticn and begin to build up prestige.In addition.
Fame, but they have linle or no Prestige within thcir unit because their
there are up to two other ways to develop Prestigochrough Family and
cxploits are more nashy than worhwhile orcommendable.
Unit Prestige  but only if the GM chooses to use either or both of the
following optionul nules.
Characters can gain prestige prior to the sturt of a campnign simply
because theyare'riding the coat-tnilof well-known telatives,using the
family recognition to increase their own Prestige. Being assigned to a
widely recognized and acclaimed military unit can add to a characters
Prestige as well, While unit assignment is at the discretion of the
Gamemaster, characters who are fortunate enough mny benefit a gneal
deal from being part of a fimous unit.
FAMILYPRESTIGE(OPTIONAL)
Players who wishto may roll 2Dio on the chart below to determine
what Prestige, if any. their characters gain from their familles' back-
ground If the Garnemaster allows it,players maymake aLuck Roll pror
to rolling on the Fanily Fanme Table. A successful roll imdicates that dhe
player may then add an sdditional +2 to his roll on the table.
Note that two of dhe entries actually remowe Prestige.This Indicate
such adverse and unstable family conditions that the character achually is
deterred and held back from attaining Prestige in later life. With such a
result,it mightbethatthe character was ralsed in an impovenshed refugee
camp.cr gheito,where the chinces of becoming well-known are dnasti.
cally diminished.
FAMILYPRESTIGETABLE
Roll
Prestiee Points Added or Removed
2-4
5-7
8-16
17
18
19
20-21
22
IDi0(minimumaddition+5)

--- PAGE 14 [OCR] ---
UNIT PRESTIGE(OPTIONAL)
THE USESOFPRESTIGE
The prestige of certain militury units that a charactcr bclongs to can
also add to that character 's Prestige. To determine the addition, add the
At the beginning of an adventure orscenario,a charactermay use his
chnracter s Rank Number CSee Rank to the modifier listed below.and
Prcstigeto"borrowadditional goods or services for his mission.Bascd
divide by 4 (rounding dowo)to dctermine the additional Prestige Points.
on the character's prestigc, somcone in authonity sces fit to release a
certain amountot equipmcnt for his use, In gamc tcms,shis means that
hetemporarilyconvers PrestigePoints imdo Talents (money)tocheck out
Modiner
orbomrowcguipment.Forcxample,acharactersentonasabotagemission
RENEGADELEGIONS
may wishto havea Grav Tank (Gnd its crew) provide someexira support
2567th Infantry Legion (Provisional)
or cover during the operalion This tank has a Talent valuc,and the player
S79lsiHeavy Anmored Minerva Legion (ThePrecand Equals)
would have to convcrt his Prestige Points into Talents to t'boow the
203lst Strike Leelon (The Legion from Omega 10)
tank and cnew foc the mission.
TiSIst Interceptor Wing (The Immorials)
When Prestiee Points are used in this manner.record them in the
3S4th Rencegade Amored Legion
"Prestige Used" blank on the character sheet. Obviousby,a character
+5 672nd Minerva Pursuit Wing (The Witches of Defiance)
can't use more Prestige than he has, Prestige Used' can never exceed
GOMMONWEATH
""Prestige" These pointis are not permidnently subtiacted from the char-
932 Air Mobile (The Bug Squashers)
acter as long as the borrowed equipment or service is retumed in good
325th Narnm B'ekkal
condition, At the beginning of every adventure, characlers can convert
369th Naram Fighter Wing Che Grand Jagunrs)
their Prestige into cquipment.
+5
34Sth Commonwealth Camier Wing cThe Pride of Xiphiasy
If the goods or services are damaged, lost, killed, ruined, or other
+SZnd Amored Calvary Regiment (2nd AcR)
wise hurt, the chacter.loses some of his prestige with whomever
TOG
authorized him to use the cquipment, the Prestige Points'expended on the
4Assigninent to any TOG Penal Unit
iicms arc pemnanenitly removed from that character s sheet He wll.of
816th Strike Legion (The Avengers of 816th)
course, gain more Prestige in funher adventures.) Thus if characters
+2
9999th Infantry Legion
spend 4 Prestigc Points to check out a weapon at the beginning of an
+2
9865th InfuntryLegion
adventure, then lose the gun (even for the best of reasons!), they will
99lst Carrier Fighiter Wing (The Defenders of the Sth Empire)
permanenty lose those 4 points.
3021st Interceptor Wing CThe Blood Eagles)
Characters on a mission together may pool their Prestige Points, or
1027th Carnier Fighter Wing (Sword of Caesar Julianus)
theymay spend them individually.Theavailablityofspecificequipment
324lst Strike Legion
is entirely at the discretion of the Gamemaster.
149th Praetorian Guards
Each Prestige Point is good for the temporary use of equipiment
13379th Surike Legion (The Harbingers of Death)
worth 10.oo0 Talenis. Thus a characler with a Prestige of 3 could borrow
+6: 689th Interceptor Wing (The Death Express)
cquiprnent worth upto3o,oo0Talents.That's notenoueh fora Gray Tank.
ADDITONAL
but it could be used to have an NPC assigned to the group for added
+2 Acsignment to any Special Forces Unit
firepower.
Since characters may add their Prestige together, they have extra
flexibility.A group of firve players with 15 Prestige Points betwcen them
For example a Renegade character with Rank S is assigned to the
would beabletomuster15o.oooTalentsworth ofequipment This would
579Ist MinervaLegion (modifierof+2).5+2=7.74=1.Thusthe
allow thcm to requlsition a ScampAmored Car.ifthe GM indicatod that
characer couldaddl Fane Point
one wasvailable.
To put things in perspective, if the characters want an Iron Duke
EARNINGPRESTIGE
Battlcship(CostinTalents.withcrew32.05.967.4o3)tocover.themon
aclandestinemission.they would haveto have3,201.S97 Prestigc Points
Every SAdventure Points (APs)earned for doing your job well (as
among themlOn the other handa Liberator Griy Tank (at 1636350
opposcd to roleplaying well) are also worth I point of Prestige. This
Talents),would reguire 164 Prestiee Points.sonewhatmore reasonnble.
incrcasc in Prcstige is in addinion to the APs eamod it doesn't cost APs
All equipment has a Talent value assigned lo it The following table
to buy Prestige. Cln factyou can' buy Prestigewith APsyou can only
lists a few more fregucntly requested senvices and pcrsonnet Their costs
eam it,in this way.) Keep unck of how many APs a chracter has becn
may bemodified by the Gamemaster.
awarded (for Mission Cornplerion orAlong the Way) in the"APs for
Prestigeblnnkon hischaractersheetEachtimeittotalsSormore.reduce
Tolents
it by S and increase Prestige by 1.
10,000
TCivilian Body Guard
25.000
APs.awarded for roleplaying don't count toward Prestige, since
I Armed Infantry Soldier
"good roleplaying is not the type of thing that eams prestige for a
32,000
L Intelllgencc Agent
charicter from his colleagues.
1500.000
1 Armed Bounce Infantry Squad
2.000.000
1 Thor Orbital Bombardmcnt

--- PAGE 15 [OCR] ---
AWARDSANDPROMOTIONS
DEMERITSAND DEMOTIONS
Of coursc, not.all chuinges in Pretige are positive. Any time a
character's Prcstigc drops and falls below a multiple of 5 (i.e., at 4.9, 14.
As a chnracter's Prestige increases.there is the possibilityofmcdals.
eica, there is a chance he will bc reprimanded (Measure this drop only
commendations and increases in rank.Every time a character's Prestige
afier the conchusion ofamission, when cquipmicnt has been returned and
reaches a multiple of five(i.e..al S.lo. tS.elc..roll Dlo onthe
Adventure Points awarded.If a character starts a mission with 6 Prestige
following table.Cf hereaches twomultiples at once,sayby going from
Points,then loses 2 points worthof equipment but gains I Pointof Prestige
4 to lo.roll twiceon thc tablc.butthe sccond roll is at-2.y
from the adventure,he hns 5 Prestige Points(6 -2+l) and in't
reprimanded.)
Note that it is possible foreach character to lose the same amount cf
Roll
Impact of Increased Prestige
Prestige,yetonly some ofthem will fall belowa multipleof .That'sthc
Awarded amedal for Gallantry,Meritorious Servict
breaks, The unlucky charictcrs re the ones the Supply Sergeant and the
Honor, Bravery, cic. detemincd by the Gamemas-
Commanding Officer target for their wrath.
Each character who meets these unfortunate critenia must roll iDio
5-8
Commendation and medalare presented to thechar-
on the followine table.
acter. This could mean a luge award ccremony or
social function,as well as a better shot at future pro-
motions, Characters with a Commendation get a +2
Roll
Impact of Lost Prestige
on their next toll on this Lable.
14
Extra KP or Dnll, but no permanent record
9-10
Promotion, Character is incrcased one level in rank
5-8
Pemanent mark placed on record Two awards or
onc commendation will nullify this mark.Until it is
mulified all rolls on the Awards tableare at -1
(umulative with othersuch marksy
Lossofone levelin rank.

--- PAGE 16 [OCR] ---
IGOGGGL
AGGGG
GENERATINGFAME
HOWFAMOLUSAMI?
Anytime a character cams Prestige Points, he might cam Famc
Fame is t difficult concept to grasp given ihe shcer size aind
Points as wellIn each case,the GM must decide whethcr the increased
magnitude of tho galaxy. When compared io othcr charactens, a pilot
prestige also indicates grealer fame. For instance, family prestige proba-
might havea argenumber ofFamc Points,hence a greatdeal of fame But
bly translates into an identical levelof fame. Similarly,unit prestige also
beyond the city or contincnt where thecharacier lives and fights howcver.
translales into fame,at least while the character is in that unit's unifom.
he can be virtually onknown.
These units are just as famous as they are prestigious, On the other hand.
The following scale is designed to providc a very rough estimate of
prestige from a successful undercovermission probably doesn tgenerate
fame levels in the Renegade Legion univcrsc, mostly to help characters
any Fume Pointsno-oneknows who did it,even if they were impressed
keep a valid perspectiveiof where they stand in society.These arc onty
at what was done.
rough examples to provide somc insightas to populanity and rccognition
For cach Prestige Point that is eamed, the oM must decide whether
in.tenmns.of.FamePoints.
a Fame Point is also eamed, However,Fame Points aren't lost when
If a character leaves the area in which he ts well-known his Famie
Prestigc Points are lost-a character doesn't becorme any less famous for
decteases correspondingly. For cxample, someone with 20 points of
having botched an assignment The only way a character might lose fane
Fame who is transferred to the front in another Couinty has very litle Gif
is if he leaves the area in which hc is famous.
any) recognition nong the new population. It is up to the GM and his
players as to how carefully and rigorously they keep track of who is
famous where.
Polnts
Example
1-10
This represents recognition on a less thantcontinen-
tal basis.An example of this mightbea local elevid
newsarticle on the character'srecentacceptance o
a mlitaryacademy
11-30
This Indicates that a character is well known on a
planetary level. War heroes given exiensive news
coveragc would qualify,as would characters given
awards by local celebnities The character's ace
woold be known,but itmight take somc time for an
NPC to fully remember who the character is and
what he did.
31-60
Throughout a planet, the, character would be well
known and easilyrecoenized,almost as gquickly as
any vid-star or high level politician,The common
person onthestreet would at least knowthenameof
thecharacter ifnotable torecognizehim instanily
61-120
County-Wide Rccognition, This range of Fane
Points indicatesthat thecharcteriswell known and
recognized inn region ofao or soplincts. His name
casily sparks recogniulon with the average being on
the strect High level politicians and ranking Che-
foieymilitany oficers oficn fall within this Tevelof
famc.
121-200
Dukedom-Wide Recognition. The nume or face of
the chnracter is recoenizable on several hundred
worlds,Wihout alierations.or conccalmcnt,the
chandeter would not be ablc to move frccly on a
world in that region without being spoted and ac.
knowledged
201-500
Districr-Wide Recognition.Acharacter thataltains
such a level would be known hroughout Narum
Space, the KessRith Empire. or the Cornmon
wealth. This mighi include ambassadors, diplo.
mnts, or Overlords.
501+
Vinually unattainableby any character,this would
arnounriogalaxy-spanningrecognition andnotort-

--- PAGE 17 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGG
SKILLS
Skills serve rwo puposes in Leglonnalre. First, they help define
Most of thc non-combat skills require intelligence, but some have
your characters, giving them depth and rounding them out The skills
physical aspects as well.Sleighi of Hand, for example,requines notonly
listed on the next few pages reflectareas ofexpertise within the Renegade
a knowledge of the tricks perfomed, but also a decent Dexterity,or the
Legion univense,making your characters fit more realistically and fully
perfornance will fail
Into the world And second they make integration of your characters into
Clearly there would be no way to publish an exhaustive list of
the board eames of InterceptorCenturion and Leviathan possible.
possible skills in the 69th century.For example,a case could be made that
When beginning acampaign, the Gamemasier should state the types
Environimental Survival ought to come bused not onlyon climate, but on
of skills and characters that will be mostuseful This shodld have a strong
specific worids as well Tofacilitate this sometimes imporunt spliting of
bearing on any skill packages the players select. If.the GM is nunning a
hains.two"umbrella"skills have been included:Career Skills and Special
covent intelligence gathering carnpaign, creating a team of Inierccptor
Interests,Career Skillstakethefom ofcS:Stoncmasona Thefinstlevel
pilots will not helpa great deal It may spell the end of the mission before
of such a skill reflects approximately a year spent in a trnining course or
it begins, Thus the Gamemaster should provide some direction to the
in an apprenticeship of some sort, giving the chnracter the nudiments of
player characters as to what to select for their characters.
thatskill.Likewisc,Spcial lnterests(Sl:RencgadeLcgion,forexample)
Skillsfull intotwoclasses Combatand Non-CombatskillsCombat
denote a particular subject not listed elsewhere in the skill list, thal the
skills deal with various aspects of interpersonal or mechanized warfare.
chaiacter has studied in delai
For the.most partthese skills areavailabletocveryoneIn thc.case of
Skills all have a levelnumber associatced with thcm.As you use your
personal combat skills, high intelligence is not needed to master them.
skills, you practice them, Skills increase in levels to mark the improve-
More difficult skills, Lke Target Acquisition, do require a bit of intelli-
meal in thal arca by your chncter. The higher the level, the better, with
gence to master.
regard to'skills.
HOWYOU GETYOUR SKILLS
Characters start the game with skill points equal totheirIQ plus 3(21
for Brennus and Jz for Althea Skill points are used to purchase skills
from the list that begins on page 24.tcosts I skill point topurchase askill
at level lExtra skill levelscan bepurchsedatacostinskillpoints,cqual
to the sum of the levels up to and including that level.Le, level 2 costs 2
more points,for a total of3points. Level3 costs.6 points (1 +2+3).3
points more than level 2.Level 8 costs 8 points mone thn level 7,oratotal
of 36 points
All skills have minimum IQrequirements.Forexample,you cannot
leam an lQ l0 skill uniess yourlQ is0 or better.TIn addition,someskills
hnveother.minimum requirements,if so,that reguirement is listedwith
theskill description,Acharactermaynottakeskillsorpackages forwhich
he does not have the prerequisite primary attnbutes.
Beginning chnracters have in advnntage when buying skils because
they may also purchase packages of skills at a rcduced cost. A package
(called a career package) reflects intensive tining or schooling of a
special nature,usuallyala military academyor similar institution,On the
other hand,ifa package is chosen,the cntire packagemustbebought.You
can't buy a TO-point puickage for 9 points by discarding a skill from it that
you don't really want.
Buying skills addstoa character's age.Each carecr package lists thc
length in time reguired to leam it.If you're not boying a career package.
divide the numberof skill points used by 2 Crounding downand add that
number to your character's beginning age.
The carcer packages can be found on pp.34-39.
20

--- PAGE 18 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGG
IGGOOOGGGOGL
OGGGGGGOM
OGGG
With borh Brennus anid Afrhearhe skills selection process tr aurly
Breaus has aDerteriryofI8andGunnery.Fighter/SmallCraf:3.
simple.Brelis iakes adhanage of the Naval, FighterSmall Cra?
When teying to hit a targer fror his Fghrer,Brennus addy his Gunmery
Opicer package as well as ddding several additional skills,and ends wp
skilltohis Derteriytodetermine AisfargefnumherThismakeshis targer
Wirh the folouing skills for his 2/ shill poinis.
a21rDX18+ckf/3J.Whchisgood.sieconbarwlo/yuse/D/ofor
Astrondeation,
resolurion. n short.Brennus tends fo hit whar he aims at, anless his prey
BruwtingiPugilism:1
Is wry good at avoiding dnuge.
Drep Pad Operations.:7
ECCM.!
Skills are not chained to onie attnbute,even ff an atinbute minimum
Electromcs:
is required to punehase thait skilt.Gunnery skill could be used to modify
Gunnery FighernSmall Crof:3
a character's lQ if the Gamemaster calls for a roll mo figure out whai sort
Laser Firedrho:
of wcapon has done darhage to a derelict fighter found drifting in space.
Leaderships7
Lkewise, Gunncry skil could modify a character's Charisma Hf
MartialArts.Brawing/pigilism:
somconc is out to hirc a hot-shot gunner for his Fluttering Petal Brennus
Projecnle Firearm
ends up with an Il (CH 1o + skill 1).making him not quite as atractive
Pllor.FigherSmall Cnof:3
as someonc else,perhaps.
Protocol:!
Itis also possible for morethan one skill to beapplied to a pdrticular
Tactics.F/ehrer/Small Croff.
problem. Suppose a chnracter has thc skill Sl.KessRith Combat Tactics!
Zero-GOperatians.J
3along withFighterGunncny.Fighter/Small Crf:2andan lOof12.and
Brennas Is nov 23 wrs old
that hewants to figure out if KessRith were the ones to cripple the drifting
In general, Brennus has a good selertfon of skill for a militdry
fighier meniioncd above.In this case his targetwould become 17(lQ 12
Choracter coming ou ofa famlly wirh poliical connectionts.Acqaining
+skill3 + skill 2),which would givehin a fairly good chance at making
bovh Karate and Brawline/Puerlism reflects th Jact thar Brenns ses
a2D10or3D10skillcheck.Thekey.in thiscase.istharthetwoskillshave
oeofthew (Martial Artslasafontofererise
an overlapping area when applicd to the particular problem at hand.
Ultimiately.the level number of any skillcan be used to modifyany
Athed does aot se the packagc anailable for her career path and
attibute forany saving roll where itscems logicaltothe Gamemaster thal
Selecrs the follouine stfls.
theskil would apply.It is up to the pluyerto present the case for stacking
AingMimier!
skills like that to the GM. If the reasoning is sound, the Gumemaster
Buraucracy Mastery:
should allow it.In some cases, the GM mighr allowpartial credit,if he
Caniputer Securiry!
feels tha a skill applies:sonicwhat but notcanpleiely For-instance,to
continue our previous cxample, if the churcter also has St, Meteor
ECCM:I
Activiry.3,mndthedrifingwreck was foundnearan asteroid bcl,theGM
Elecronicr:2
mightallowhim another+l tforatotalof l8ysincehecan figure outwhich
Gambin:
of the marks on the fighter were chuscd by random meteoric collisions
Prpyectfle Firearms:!
after the ship wis killed.
Repair Tech,Ground:
The GM is always the final judge of where and how skills and
Resedrch:
atunbules can becombined.
ScareneerTinker:
Skill levels cunnot be combined with the Edge to influence it in any
Securiy Tech
Way.but skills are siill applicable on repeated saving rolls caused by use
Shimmiag:J
of the Edge.
Tracking:1
Detiled rules for skill use are found on page 96
Urhan Smnzal:
A/rhea s deeis 25
OPTIONALSKILLRULES
Athea's sills are suitable far a local member othe Renegdde
Undergraud. She obrioush makes a fhine repabins clectronics ad
STARTINGOUT BETTER
corpufers.The AcinerMimie and Disguiseare skillrshe spirked upby
Occasionallya player wil want to stan a character out hotThis
pdrticipaling in d locdl thearer group,but she puts them to bener wseas
means he wants his character to bcein lifewith hichcr scores in certain
a memher ofrhewndereround.
skillsthan is gererally found in new characters.Themostobvious answer
to this request ts to send the new character through the Career Genera-
In the next secilon you'll find the lis of skills available in the game
tion tables several more times than requlred,These lables will add some
and some guidelines for the Gamemaster to be able to put together
to the life expcriences ofthe characterand will help Tncrease skills at the
package deals other thun those listed in the skils section.
risk of additional injunes.
HOWSKILLSWORK
BUTILEARNED TODOTHATASAKID
A good background storyfor a charactercan berewarded by grunting
Skills work rather simply.They serve as modifiers for attributes
thecharacteraskill ortwo for free.Generally this largess is availnble only
when certain rolls are mode,Two charactens might both have Laser
through the generosiry of a.GMnnd should be limited to two skill porints
Firearms:4,indicating bothof them have level 4 proficiency in that skitl.
worthofskills.
However, the one with the better DX will be a belter sho.

--- PAGE 19 [OCR] ---
GOOGOOGGGGG
AOGGGGO
SKILL LIST
Below is the list of skills uvailablc in Legionnaire.
IQ2SKILLS
The wisest course in selecting skills runs neatly between the two
extremes described above.The skills ate Tisted bytheIO necded lo master
AOTING/MIMIG
them. Recall that players strt with skill points cqual to their IQ plus 3.It
A character with this skill can assumc a role and act out a part The
is probably best to pick all of the skills you want,at level , before buying
level number serves as an IQ modifier in determnining how well the
extra(and more expcnsiveylevels in anyofthem,Medtech skill is always
charicter assumes the role he has bcen iven, whether itis Shakcspcare 's
useful if you have any points left ovcr.
Hamlet or Overiord Gracci Maximus (whom the characters have mur-
Because of specialized training regiinens, like those offered in a
dered and disposed of on his estate), Level S, if the charicter is a
MilitaryAcademy,iispossibletopurchaseskillsaspackages Following
professional actor,represents high talent
theskill listitself you cin find the packages ofskills,Gamcmastcrstmight
liketoexpand this collection of packagedeals astheydevelop schoolsand
ARCHERY
training academies for their own comer of the tiniversc.
A characier with this skil has a workingknowledgeoflong bowsand
Somc cntrics arc actially clusters of skills, For exumple, Repair
crossbows.The levcl numberrepresents a DX modifier forusein combat.
Tech is actually Eive skills.
In addition itcan be used as an IQmodifier when a charaeler is atlempting
Repair Tech Small Eguipment
toidentifythc type ofcrossbow arrow being fired by an encmy.Itcan also
Repair Tech, Fighter/Small Craft:
function as an lQ modifier when the character atempls to jury-nig a
Repair Tech,Gray Vehicles:
damiged weapon.
Repair Tech, NonGray Vehiclesand
Repair Tech, Capital Ships.
BLADE
Thus a characier might have Repair Tech, Gray Vehicles: I and Repair
Acharacterwith thisskillcan wieldashodtswordorlong sword.The
Tech,Fiehter/Small Craft3 Each is a sepirateand individual skill
level is a DX/AG modifier in combat In most cultures this is treated as
Fencing skill or as the KessRith refer to itBurns-Shaka"
BRAWLING/PUGILISM
A character with this skill has undergone intensivetraining in the use
offists,feet and head for fighting purposes. The level number is a DX/AG
modiGier in combat. While this is technically taueht as 'the art of self-
defense. instructors often inchude training in che use of cesti, brass
knuckles ofa particularly nasty form that street fighters favor in shadier
quancrs.
KNIFEKNIFETHROWING
A character with this skill can usea dagger or a laser stilelto. The
level number is a Dx/AG modifier in combat when used as a hand-held
weapon. Using a knife in onc hand ard a sword in the otherrequires a mini.
mum Dx of 14and allows two attacks butonly one skill can be uscd to
modify AG in this casc, When throwing aknife,the level number is used
s a DX modifier to seeif the target is hit Effectivc ringe is io melers.
The level mumber can modify lO for laser stiletto repair antempts.
LASERFIREARMS
A character with this skill has a working knowledge of hand-held
beam weaponry, This includes laser rifles, carbines, and pistols, These
power-hungry but very effective weapons are designed primarily for use
in zero-G combat, since they produce no recoil.
The level number represents a Dx modifier for use in combat, In
addition it can be used as an IQ modifier when a characier is attemnpting
to identify a wcapon in the hands of an enemy, or when selecting
Gennium-Arsenic crystals to fix the weapon. It can also function as an IQ
modifier when the character atiempts to diagnose or jury-nig a damaged

--- PAGE 20 [OCR] ---
AOGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
IQ3SKILLS
IO4SKILLS
POLE WEAPONS
GAMBLING
Acharacter withthisskillcan usea spear.javelin,luserpilum,staff.
Acharucterwith this skillunderstands gambling andthe waysbeings
stun-staff or trident in combat. It alsocovers the urc of the Ssomn lthica,
have devised to chcat ench other at games of chnnce, Italso includes:n
atndcnt-ikewcaponthclcvclnumbcrisa DxAG miodihierincombat
working knowledge of various gambling systems and their Daws, Thc
This course of training includes practice in throwing a balainced pole
level number servesboth as a LK modifier when involved In gaines of
weapon CNote tndents cannot be used as thrown weaponsy Whcn
chance and an TQ or DX modifier when trying to spot cheating or
throwing, the level number is a Dx modifier to hit the tirget.
attempting to cheat yourself. This ts not a polite skill but one that can he
handy to have.
PROJECTILEFIREARMS
A character with this skill has a working knowledge of hand-held.
GARROTE
projectile-shooting fireatms.
A characler with this skil khows the uses of a uarroteThe level
Projectile fireams cover a wide range of weapons. Their scope
functions as a Speed modifier for a preemptive stnike roll when using this
includes.all personal projectile ans used in Legionnaire,including slug
Weaponand functionsasaLKmodificrfora2Dlorolltoseeifthevictim
rines, carbines, pistols.and thcir spike-throwing .counterparts.
makes a sound as thc gartote cuts of his nespiration, The level modiher
The level number represents a Dx modifier in combat In-addition
is reduced by 2 if the victim is not of the same species as the attacker. lt
it can bc used as an lQmodifier when a chnracter is attempting to identify
cin alsofunction as an AG modifierto seeifaplayer successfully sncaks
a weapon in the hands of an enemy.Itcan alsofunction as an TQ modifier
up oh a victim, though the Gamemaster should vary the number of dice
when the charncterattempts todingnose andcleara fouled weapon In the
rolled in stuich an altempt depending on the alertness of the victim.
case of spike weapons, ft can also be used as an lQ modifier to detect
defective polyimer blocks.
SUPPORTWEAPONS
Acharacter with this skillknows how to useand fireinfantry suppon
SWIMMING
weapons such as morurs or TVLGs. These weapons are what help keep
A character with this skill knows how to avoid drowning whcn
infantry alive where Grav Armor is deployed The skill level is a Dx
tossedintowater of greaterdepth than his heightThe level ntimber serves
modifiertorcomhat aitacks.
asan lQmodifierto wamcharacters off from waterthat runstoo quickly
This number can also.represent an TQ modifier when chariciers
forthemtocope.a LKmcdifiertoavoid therocks when diving intomurky
atiempt to identifythe types ol support weapons that opposing forces arc
waler,ora modifierto avoid drowning
using, or to determine if a danaged weapon is still functional.
WRESTLING/CLUB
A character with this skill knows a variety of ways to incapacitating
an individual without killing them.The level numnber is a DxAG mcdi.
fier in combat In addition, it can be used as a modifier when attempting
a preemptive strike: If a preemptive strike roll is missed while using
Wrestling/club skill,the altacker's Agility will only suffer a 2s%
reduction,not a Soge reduction as it would othcrwise.
When an attacker is attempting apreemptive strike"from surprise
witha club,thenumberoftheskilllevelshouid beused asa muldplierfor
the damage done to the target.(Le.with skill level 3,multiply a club's
normal damaee by 3 to detemine the amount of CN losty All of this
damageis considered non-lethal (since the intent is just to renderthetarget
unconscious), so thetargt is automalically considered stable and recoy-
ers this lost CN ar I per minute, reeardless of the amount lost.
Notc: This skill level multiplier fordamage only applics toattacks
meant to incapacitate, If an atack fails to knock a target unconscious, it
has no othereffect the target loses no CN, Even if the blow does knock
a targetunconscious,thctargcthas notactually lostany CN.subscqucni
attacksto wound incapacitate or killthis target subtract from his onginnl
CN sCorC.

--- PAGE 21 [OCR] ---
GGGGGUGGGGGI
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
IO6SKILLS
IO7SKILLS
BOUNCEPACK OPERATIONS
AMBUSH
Acharacterwith this skill knows how touse Bounce Packs as amode
A churacter with this skill knows how to set and spot traps ind
oftransportation.This skill requires aroll only when thecharacterdeploys
ambushes. The level number serves as an IQ modifier for both locating
from a speeding Grav Vehicle,if the vehicle is moving,itmust be ai least
and seiting ambushes, When a character with this skill sets an ambush,
trec-top high,else the character has no chance to adjust io thc change in
somcone allempting to spol it would subtraci this character's skin.
speed before hiing the dint (palnfully,The level of this skill modifies
miodified lQfrom his own skill-modified lQtoprovidethetargetnumber.
AG,and a successful roll indicates thal a player has used the pack with
Cther modifiers, such as caver.could also be taken into account by the
inleornodifficulty.Afailedroll canrsultin acharacterlanding farfrm
GM in seting the number-of dice for'the roll.
friendly troops, and/or being injured upon deploymncnt at the discretion
Note:A successful roll does not immediately dctect an ambush,nor
of the Gamemaster.
does an unsuccessful roll make it undetectable. A chinicter can sent
scouts out and through an area of polential ambush and discover soldiers
CAREER SKILLSICS)
hidden there, no matter whnt a dice roll has said.
Each one Is a separate skill
Acharncter with onc ofthese skills has spenttime outside of military
APPRAISAL
service training for or perfomming a purticular job, These skils do not
A character with this skill hns two abilities to recognize items with
supcrsede any skill that is specined elsewhere in this list Level L means
some intrinsic value and to remember whcre they micht be sold for profit.
the character could find cmployment In that field, level S indicates
The level mumber serves as an Q modifier for skill checks to identify
extremely high regard from anyone familiar with his work.
things of value.A failed roll could mcan that a valuable item is sccn as
Canecr Skills span the universe in their possibilities.From CS,Beast
Worthless, or thata worthless item is secn lo be valuable,lialso serves as
Keeper to CS, Asteroid Mincr, they cover any sort of job thit can be
an IQ modifier when trying to remember where you last saw a paricular
perfonmed bya semi-sentientcreature.Career Skills include basieknowl-
good or where you mighi bc able to sell what you just found.
edge that would be vital to perform in that career area. CThis definition is
Knowing something hus value does not mcan you will gei full value
somewhatloose,soplayers.and Gamcmastersareencouraeedtoworkout
for it when you try to sell it. See Diplomacy/Haggling (lQ 1O) for a skill
exactly what information is vital to perfomming such skills as  CS.
to cover that problem.
Attendnt at a KessRith Bathhouse.)
ORBITALFIRE SUPPORT
SPECIALINTERESTSSI
A character with this skill can coordimate Thor or other orbital fire
Each one is a separate skill
support bombardments in combat situations. This includes the ability to
A churacter with one of dhese skills has spent time studying a
use some sont of personalcommunicator and mapgridtodirectwhere and
particular subject ofinterest to him The level number functions as an lQ
how.much firesuppon lo request.
modifier when altempting to recall infommation about that paricular
The skill level is an lQ modifier for skill checks,ltcan be added to
subject.
Communications.P.command Tactics,Groundskllsforadvances.ifhe
Sishave afairybroadrange,from SL TheLast Hours of New Rome
Gamemaster so desires
nnd Sl,Last WordsoftheEmperor's Ex-lovers to Sl,Role Playing Games
Successful use of this skill increases the accuracy of such attacks by
of Tema's 2Sth Century,to St,the Fertility Ritesof the Vauvusar During
the skill level of the character.
the MidnightDays,Grantedthese are soneofthe moreexiremeexamples
of Speclal Interests avallable, but they ilhistrate how thesc kills can be
PROTOCOL
used to rodnd outchuraciers and their personalities. In the last exanple
A characterwiththis skill hasthe social skills needed to inteructwith
that skill midht not be substantially useful but if a charictercomimented
others in a professional and couneous manncr. It means thata character
on how ench and every liule thing reminded him of aspects of a nual
knows how lo address  visiting Overlord, and how to bow. without 
well it would make him interesting to have in the group.
laurel-leafwreath falling from his brow.Tho level numbcr scrvcs as an Io
Nole alil dialects and hinguagcs should be handled as Sis for the
modifier for identifying importunt pcople und knowing how to act in
purpose of deciding fluency and literacy.Level 3 in any language means
formal situalions This includes a fair dose of courdy grace and this skill
superior fluency, with level S meaning it is hnnd to differentiate the
is the mark of thewell bred.
character from a native speaker (with thc possible exccptions of sounds
he cannot pronounce because he lacks the physical capability to do soy.
STEALTH
A characterwidhthis skill hns the ability to movequietly and quickly
through all sorts of teiin and situntions, The level number serves as an
AG modifier when making rolls to avoid detection,Italso scrves as an IQ
modifier when trying to locate somcone else who is using this skill to
avoid detection.

--- PAGE 22 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
AGGGGGGGGGOG
GGOG
IQ8SKILLS
SEDUCTION
A charcter with this skill can chann anyone favorably inclined (or
DROPPOD OPERATIONS
insomecircumstances,evenunfavorablytothatcharacter.Theskillonly
works within your species or between Hunan and Naram. The target is
A character with this skill can use Drop Pods to transfer ground
dctermined by subtracting the victim's modified IQ from the character's
troops from orbit to the planet's surface. The level number functions as
modified CH The number of dice being used can be detennined by other
an AG (defensive) modifier when encmies target the pod, It also serves
factors that would matfer to the subjectof the seduction, especially what
as an IQ modifier for the'selection of appropriate landing sites.
hc sees as his gain from the proposition versus any risks he mighit incur.
It is upto the Gamemastertodeterminc what successful usc of this
ENVIRONMENTAL SURVIVALSKILLS
skillgains thecharacter (information,ctc.),but playcrs arc encouraged to
Arctic
provide a direction for such an award,
Hostile (normally non-habitable)
Temperate
TRAINING
A character with this skill can show.othcrs (NPCs only) the basics
Urban
ofhow something isdone orhow touse askill.This skill is very important
A character with one of these skills has the ability to survive in that
sincein mianyrespects,itallowscharacters totransferskillsthatthcyhave
specifie environment The level number serves.as an IQ modifier for
to others. The person being trained must have the minimum TQ Cand any
trying to find food, avoiding nasty situations and locating suitnble
other attributes).necessary to master the skill.
lodgings/shelier.In situations of yaniable gravity.the level numbercould
To train someone takes atime in weeks cqual to the minimum IQ of
also serve asan AG or SP modifier when attempting to accomplish a
the skill (E.g it takes 7 wccks to leach un lQ 7 skill) A nunber.of
tricky physicalmancuverUrbanSurvivalcovers the savvy and streetwise
students cgual to the teacher's Training skill level can be taught at one
skills to survive in the rougherurban areas of a world.
time. (E.g-, a leacher with Training 3 can teach 3 students at any one
time)
GUNNERY SKILLS(MIN.DX IO)
Attheend of thetime period,the playershould makea 2Dio lQ skill
Capital Ship
check with his character's Training level as a modifier If the roll is
Fighter'Small Cran
successful, the person being traincd has  level in the skill bcing taught.
Ground
Ifthe player wishes to,hemayraise the skill level passed on by adding one
A charaicier with one of thesc skills is traincd and proficient in the
dietotheroll foreach additional skill level,nevertocsceed hisown level
accurate use of heavy weapons Each skill is taught in military acadeinles
in the skill being laugh (E.gteaching a skill at level 3 requires a SD10
and training bases.
Gunnery.Ground includes GravArmor and groundvehicle weapons.
He may also reducethe nunberofdicerolled by spending addiilonal
Fighiter/Small Crafit covers the weapons and turreted devices on Intercep-
time teaching For each additional block of time, he may reduce the
tors.gunbonts and non-FTL ships,Capital ShipGunncryskill reflects the
number ofdicerolled by one howeverthe player must always roll at least
ability to use the targeting and firing systems of large FTl-capable
onedi.(E.g. spending 14 wccks,tather than 7.wecks,totach ainO7
vessels"bay fire control systems,
skill,reduces thedice rolled on the check by , Conversely,spending less
The skills most comimon usc comes in combat,where they serve as
than theminimum amount oftime increases ahe aumberof dice rolled.If
a DX modifier when calculating the target mumber for a die roll. When
less than thc full amount of time is spent, add I die, If more than a third
Legionnaire is fully integrated with Interceptor and Centurion, the
of theprescribed time,but no more than half,is spent,add 2 dice.Ifmore
appropniate Gunnery skill translates directly into a character's Gunnery
than a qurterof theprescribed timc,but less than a third,is spent,add3
Ski Level.
dice And so fonh.
SCUBA
ZERO-G OPERATIONS MIN.DX IO)
A characier with this skill can use urderwater breathing apparatus.
A characier with this skill can opcnate and use a variety of Zro-G
It includes knowledgt of the huzirds of such activity, with the level
Eea.It also covers operaticns skills and safety measures in working ina
number serving as an lQ modifier when ailemipting todetermine decom-
Zero-Gravity cnvironmcn.
pression time and the like. If also serves as a Dx modifier for use of
The level is nonmally an AG modifier.TheGamcmaster maycall for
wepons hke spcar guns and boomsticks.
d Zero-G Opehiions skill chcck anytimea character attemptsadifhiculi
or tricky mancuvcr in a weiehtless environunuent lthc characteris in a
Bu dn insol sdeyod uosadpoysun ue undiaystouogonuspasn
space suit,this skill can require a check to make sure thut no mistakes are
made.

--- PAGE 23 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
OGGNGGGOGGOL
IO10SKILLS
FORGERY
A character with this skill cati produce ind detect forgenies. This
BUREAUCRAOY
docs not confctan cxpcrbse inworks ofart by any parcularanist-hat
A characierwith this skill can manioulate civil servnnts,The level
would require a Special Interest skill. Forgery primanly deals with the
mumberservesas an lOmodifierto locatethe ony person in theofficewho
lcchnigues for producing forged signntures and docunents,thouph itdoes
can possibly help you, Tt also serves as a CH modifier for chummning this
give information about the chemical composition of paints and paper that
sane person, or ngnin lis an IQ modificr-whea altcmpting to sirongarm
might detect an ant forgery.
The level number functions as an lO modifier when attempting to
them tntocooperalion.:
detect forged documcnts and scals,and an IO or DX modifier(whichever
COMPUTERSEOURLY
is more appropriate for the tasky if a character is atcmpting to produce a
A charicier with this skill can both prevent and accomplish com-
forged document.
puter thcff and similar intrusions into databases or corputer-operated
secunty systems The level mumber serves as an lQ modifier when the
LEADERSHIP
churacter imposes .new level of security on a system. When someone
A character with this skill can direct and command others in jobs or
subseguently attempts to crack thal system, the character's combined IQ
military operatiooss it is usually gained both through training and practi-
and skill levelopposc the modified lQ of the infilrator.
cal experience.
Thelevelnumber actsas a CH modifierwhen achacktosee iforders
DEMOLITIONS
to NPCwill be carrled out CThe NPC trying to avoid the orders will
A.characier with this skill can set and/or disarm explosive devices,
obtain a target by subiracting his leader's modified cH from his own IQ.
and has u working knowiedge of cxplosives and theif applicalions
The number of dice used to hit this target is upto the Gamemaster.y It is
Cincluding Det-Kits).Thisis the skill needed toconstnucta timbomb,or
up to the character giving the orders to decide how to deal with an
to figure exacty how much plastique it takes to get a safe open without
insubordinate character.
destroying is fragile contents The level number functions as an IQ
LOCKPICKING/SAFECRACKING
modifier when trying to sertle such difficult questions.
Furhermore characters with level3 or betier may usethis skill to
A chanacter with this skill can open all types of locks and safes.It
disam explosive devices, This includes bombs, mincs, or other booby
includes a knowledge of the vanious electronie lockpicking devices
traps that may be encountered. Subtract 2 levels before making this type
needed to circumvent the locks and safes common in the 69th century,The
of check. (Level 3 bccomes level 1.level 4 becomes level 2,etc.)
level number functions as a Dx or IQ modifier in making rolls to open
Demolitioas skill can also fumctions as an lO modifierif the site of
doors and.strongeboxes.
in cxplosion ts being inspected, for discovering the type of timeri
Note This skill does not include an understanding of cxplosives or
detonator and explosive used.
demolitions, There are actually non-volatile ways.of opening doors and
vaults Demolitions skill may be combined with this skilto provide in IQ
DISGUISE
modifler for blowinga door.
A character with this skill can changc his appcarance cnough to be
MOUNTAINEERINGGLIMBING
uken for somiconeelse,The levelnumberservesas an TO modifierwhen
trying either to creale an alter-identity or pierce a created identity, It
A character with this skill can scale both natural and man-made
includes a full knowledee of cosmetics and what is fashionable in the
obstacles The level nimber functions as an AG modifier for the trickier
vanous levels of society. However aside from Human/Narum cross
moves an ascent might nequire, as an IQ modifier both when planning a
disguise,thisskill cannotmnkeone spccies look likcanotherwithanysort
climb and when choosing the spot for pitons or belay lines, and a Dx
of convincing effect
modifier when trying to hit a particular target with a grappling hook.
This skill can also be used to conceal weapons or cther items on an
NEGOTIATION
individunlt the level is an IQ modifier when opposing the check of
Acharacler with this skill can perform two similar tasks.The first is
scmeoncsearching for such items.
lonegotiateThelevelnumberisusedasan lO modifertodeteminewhat
ELEGTRONICS
thc other side wanis in a discussion A successful skill check means the
A charaicter with this skill can constnuct and repair electronic
Gamemaster can spell out in black and white what might otherwise have
devices Unlikc thc skill Scavenger/Tinker, Electronics skill actually
been hidden in the normally evasive language a diplomat might usc.
gives a character some idea of what he is doing. He can take the raw
The second ability is to haggle. While similar in effect, it is a more
mnterials, new or scavenged, and build actually working devices. The
"earthy fonn of negotiation. If a successful TO-based chcck ts made
level number is uscd as an IO modifier for designing,building and
against this skill, the margin by which the roll is made is multiplicd by
repairing most devices.
Sgthat's thc anount the owner.is really willingto sell the ftem for (to
a minimum of 25% of the original asking pnice). And it is diplomatic to
say "Thank You" after you've haggled a merchant into poverty. (The
merchant's haggling skill,ifany,isancgative modifierto yourroll.If you
make your roll exactiy he stands fum, but might throw in n Gitle
soinething extra. if you miss, he holds fast and you'll have to buy at his
pnce,or go withouL.)

--- PAGE 24 [OCR] ---
PILOT(MIN.AGIO)
Capitat Ship
Fiehter/Small Craft
Ground
A character with one of these skills has pnctical expenencc and
trining in thepilotingolthe spccifedtypeotcguipmnentThetighierand
tank skills are aught in military academies or Renegade training bises.
Pllot,Gound skill includes Grav Arnor and conventional vchicles such
as cars and Grav transports.Pilot,Fighter/Small Craft.covers Intercep.
tors,shutles,and other non-FTL ships. Pilot,Capital Ship skill retlecis
the ability to. pilot large warships, conmmercial haulers or anv vesscl
capable ol travelling inierstellar distances.
The levet numberis usuallyan AG modificrin combat.Howeverit
could also bc uscd as a CH modiier whcn a chcck is needed to determine
if a character will be hired as a pilot or as an DX modifier for flying/
driving through difficulr places, Tike an asteroid belt or broken set of
canyons on a planet
When Legionnaire is fully integrated wiih Interceptor and Cenlu-
rion, the appropriatc piloting skill translates directly into a character's
Piloting Skill Level.
OUICKDRAW(MIN.DXI3)
Each weapon is a separate skill
in the roll according to how well the player roleplays his attempt at the
Acharacter with onc of theseskills can drawa smallmissile weapon
bluff.The betier the acting job,the lower the umber of dice, cThe target
Cusually a pistol or dagger) and use it before another individual can act.
would be delemined by sobtracting the NPC's IQ (modified by his own
Theplayerlcaming such a skillmust specify exactly whattype of weapon
levelof Swindline if he has in) from the character s modified CH)
thatthe skillappliesto(such as aspike pistoD.The levelnumberfunctions
Rememberthot cenainalien spccics have negative CH modihiers.
as a SP modifierwhen mnking a roll to sce if the character can geta shot
when a human is swindling one of these thc negative modifier applies
or throw off before the enemy has a chance to react, If successful the
againsr the human's attempt
character will getone altack with his quickdraw weapon before the actual
startof the Girst combat round.giving him the possibility of 2 shots in one
TACTICS
round, Missing the roll does not cauise the penalties of having missed a
Capital Ship
preempuve stnke.
Fihter/Small Cran
Ground
SEOURTYTECH
These skills are the oes all good military leaders need A character
A character with this skill can establish or break sccurity systcms in
with onc of thesc skills can outgucss an enemy in any.combal situation
ground installations or on capital ships, The level number serves as an lQ
otherthananambushtsee Ambush skillyTheievelnumberisusedas an
modificr in any aitempt to locale a weak point in security.When a new
IO modifier to deteminewhn the enemy's most likely action will be
security system has been put into place by the character his modificd lQ
Successful rolls can result in accurate guesses about'cnemy planning or
is subtracied from any interloper's modified lQ for the opposed check to
actual modifiers to be used later in conbat For example,a fighter pllot
mightrealize"thal his cnemy favors Immclmann maneuvers,so he
anticipates such a thing and eets a bous to hit during any combat round
SURAIGHTDRIVE
in which that mancuver is cmployed by his target.
A chamcter with this skill understands any ship's sublight drive
componenis, This includes thc ability to calibrate drive mechanisms.
TRAOKING
repair damaged components, and modify the eguipment.
A charucler wih this skill can tnack or tail individuals in either
The level acts as an IQmodifier for all repair and modification rolls
wildemess orurban setings,The levelnumber serves as an IOmodifier
The evel can also be combined with LK for a character to deternine ifa
in feireting outclues tothe passage of theperson being tracked Itcan also
drive is defective It may also be used as an lQ modifier in determining
serve as a ncgative modificr for people trying totrack a characlerwho is
tun'opposing.craft's'dnive oritsdamage level.
using the skill to pass unnoticed or conoeal his location.
SWINDLING.(MIN.CH12)
WEAPONSTECH
Acharacterwiththisskillcan sell sund todesertsheiks orsunglasses
A character with this skill can repair most weapons systems. The
to Menelvagoreans on the dark side of their moon. The level mumber
level nuimber serves as an io modifier for rolls.fixing the weapan in
scrves as a CH modifier when attempting to corivincc.someone lo tmde
qucstion provided the parts are available or can be scronged, scav-
away sonethingthey value for something useless,ltalso servesto check
enged or constructed with the tools at hand, The dice used in this roll will
when a churacter is altempting to bluff an NPC into believing something
depend on the GM's assessment of working conditions and the supplies
that is untrue.The Gamemaster should modify the tiumber of dicc used
ortpols availablctothe wcaponstcchnician

--- PAGE 25 [OCR] ---
IQIISKILLS
FTLDRIVE
A chnrdcterwith this'skill understandsany FT LDrive,as well as all
ASTRONAVIGATION
dnve componcnts and controls.This includes the ability tocalibrate drive
Acharacterwiththis skill cannavigalespacccraftThe levelnumber
mechanisms,repair damaged components,and modify tothe cguipment.
The level acts as an Q modifier for dl repair and modification rolls
scrves as an TQ modifier for saving throws to determinethe mostefficient
to FIL.drives.The level can also be combined with LK for a character to
route between destinations, both in terms of fuel and hours in T-space.
detemineifadrive isin anywaydefectivepriortoa T-Spce Jump. It may
Details of how this skill applics are covered in Space Travel.
also be used as an lQ modifier in determining an opposing craft's drive
or ils damage level.
ECMECCM
A charucter with this skill can jam enemy comnmunications devices.
INTERROGATION
or break the jamming of yourown devioes.It hlso includesa knowledge
Acharacterwiththisskill cangetinfomationoutofanNPCthat has
of listening devices and other coven surveillance cquipment The skill
been captured. Ofien the proper infommation can mean the.difference
level serves as an IQ modifier in atiempts to jam, break jumming, and
betwcenlife.anddeath
locateand hidedevices:
The level is an IQ modifier in uitempts to get information.
RESEARCH
A character with this skill can Tocate information on a panticular
subject.The level number represents an IQ modifier when altempting to
research a subject The quality of the library and/or the dnta base that he
is using may also modify the roll or number of dice used. This skill may
be combined with alnost any.other subject when reseurching sormething
conceming that skill.
Forexnmple,a player wishes to use Research to detemine what sort
of fighiers made the strafing nun that destroyed a village, Using eyewit-
ness accounts and dut leamed because of his PilotFighter/Small Craft
2,the characler combines that skill level with his Research skill level of
3 and 1Q of 15 to give him atarget of 20 for this 2D10 roll. The roll is a
l7 so the Gamenaster notes theblastpattems areconsistentwith the sort
scen after a Glidius siafing rin CA beller die roll might have suggested
more Information, like a possible Tdehtification for the partial serial
number seen on the hull ot one frghier mnking he un.)
SGAYENGERTINKER
A chiracler with this skill can make a siik purse out of a sow s ear.
conventing and modifying seemingly useless equipment and gear. The
level numnber is an lo miodifer when tnying tolocate an item or convert
ft from one function toanother.Thedifficulty of the conversion,in tems
ofdiceforthe skillcheck.should bedeterminedby thcdifference belween
the items' oniginsl function and what they are being converted to.
Characters with this skill are generally considered to be camying with
them, at all times,a roll of duct tape,a utility knife andor a ballof string
of prodigious lengths.
TARGETACOUISITION
Capital Ship
Flehter/Small Cran
Ground
A character with onc of these skills can comprehend basic threat
evaluation and advanced targeting of weapon systems, Its level number
can modify DX when fring at a second orthird target in a combatround.
whcther shifiing shots in pensonal combat or spliiting shots with multiple
weapons systems on board the appropriate vehicle.

--- PAGE 26 [OCR] ---
OOOGGL
IQI2SKILLS
MEDTECH
This skill is one of the most valuable in the gamc. A character with
COMMUNIGATIONS
this skill can stabilize wounded characters, perhaps even preventing
P-Comm
death Consult Wounds and Healing for a full description of how to do
VLCA
this.
Acharacter with onc of thesc skills can operate P-Comm or VLCA
Skill levels ofl-4indicatethatthe character is a Medic-Nurse,while
CYery, Large Communications Array) equipment The level number
skill levels ofS-6TndicatethatthecharucterIs an Inten.Skill levels of7
senves as an lQmodifierwhen thc charicter is atempting toestablish and
or more indicntethat the character has feached ihe level o full Modicnl
Doctor.
send communications to a distant star systemCAiming at a targct
hundreds of light years away is not easy.)
Each skill ean also be used as an lQ modifier for anlempting to
SLEIGHTOFHAND (MIN.DX3)
intercept transmissions when using the equipnent appropciale lo thal
Acharacterwith this skill can perform and spot magical/illusionary
tricks, The level number serves as a DX modifier when attempting to
perfom such tricks, and an lO modifier when attempting to spot then,A
MARTIALARTS(MIN.DX IO)
good amateur magician hns this skill at level3,while level 5 would mark
the starting point for professional stardom.
Archery (Kyujulsa)
Blade (Kenjutsu)
Brawling/Puellism (Karate/Alkido)
XENOCULTURE
Knife/Knlfe Throwing Jultejuts)
Fach alien species is a separate skill
Pole Weapons (Bojutsu)
A character with one of these skillshas studied the cultures and
Zero-G Operations (Burjutsu)
customs ofoneofthealien species in the Renegade Leglon universc.This
Mantial Arts are divided into six skills Each must be boughi
includes cverything from how to properdy word the thank you note for a
individually, The cost is high because the Martial Arts are, in several
Vauvusaran orgy.towhatthe properspearis forgigging Kanathafrom the
ways,the most powerful of the combat.skills available.
communal feeding poolat a Ssoran banquel.
The skills listed function in all ways as their more mundane counter-
The skill level serves as in lQ modifier in making such choices,or
parts, but they bring some benefits with them:
a CH modiferto detemine the reaction of alien NPCs to the characler.
Finsl the level number functions as amodifier to borh Dx and AG
inmeleecombat(DXonlyformissileweapons).Withothercombatskills
the levelnumber his tobe splitbetwcen DX (offense)and AG (defense).
butwith MiitialArtsthefulilevelnumberfunctionsbothoftensivelyand
defensively. (No,you can't split a level 2 into +3 for DX and +1 for AG.)
Second, as with their related mundane skills,the DX modifier may
be used inits. nonmal fashion to modify the result of a hit location roll.
Third,a character with a Martial Arts skill may engage in any round
of combat as many enemies as his level number, with o negative
modifiers, Thc damage he does Cbefore modification based on hit loca-
tion) must be divided by the number of people he attempted to hit.
regardless of the success or failure of those attacks. (Just because you
missed doesn't mean you didn'texpend the energy.trying lo hit.)
All Manial Arts skills associated with a specific weapon can only bc
employed with that wcapon and will receive all hit and damage bonnses
thatcone with the wenpon.Each related mundane skil lists the weapons
usable with thal skill.
Zero-G, or Burjutsu, is the newest manial art-Zero-G hand-to.
hand combat, Chnactersusing this skill are skilled at fighting in no- or
low-gravity environments,The skill level is halved (round down) if an
Environmental Suit or any amor is wom.
Martial arts skill levels may nor be combined with their associaled
mundane skill levels for any type of cumulative modifiet,nor may a
martial arts skill level modify an offensive check while its related
mundane skil level modifes a defensive check (or vice versa).

--- PAGE 27 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGOGGGOGGGGGG
GGGG
IQ13SKILLS
STRATEGY
Ground
Naval
ALTERNATEIDENIIIY
These skills are similar to Tactics skills, except they deal with
Each identity Is a separate skiu
broader plans: continental assaults, wars waged on multiple worlds or
Acharacierwih one ofthcseskills has builtan aliernate identity for
systems,anid the like, Surategy, Ground skill refers to all aspects of
himsclf, With this skill, the charucter guarantees thuut hc will not be
ground-based comhat and air suppon, while Stralegy. Naval is a similar
discovered while he is not in play.On the other hand, if the charactcr docs
skill appliod to capital ships and fleet deploymenit
something in the course of an adventire that reveals his alternate identity
A suceessfud IO saving throw,modified by this skill results in the
to others, his cover is blown Cto dhose othershmo check allowed
characier benter allocating troops and resources.
This skill is checked (modifying IQ, when  character is being
If thc character is on n military mission or assigmcnt, it is assumed
investigated or.the ID he has created is being called into question.
that an Npc with this skill will sce io itthat supplies and reinforcements
This skill may be purchased multiple times to establish n series of
are available and on schedule however enemy operations may disnupt
aliermate identities,Itis vital fora charactertohnvethis skillif hewishes
the supply line.
to infiltrate,on a long tem basis,anenemy campcspecially if theother
These skills also inchude insighits into the different forms of strategy
players in the group are going to be deceived I is not needed if a
used by the various forces thraughout the Rencgade Lcgion universe. This
temporaryidentity is heing establishod for a quick undercover run.If that
skill s generally lcamed through a Commonwealth or Impenial War
identity is later to be expanded and havean independcnt life of its own.
College.
however, this skill has to hc purchased.
IQ14SKILL
ESCAPEARTIST(MIN.DX3ANDAG13)
A chanactcr with this skill has a working knowledge of all manner of
XENOBIOLOGY
personal restraints and bindings It does not include the abilities of
Lockpickine/Safecracking orMountaincering/climbing skills,butitmay
Each nlien specles is a separate skil
be combined with them to modify skill checks when an cscape otibe
.A character with one of these skills has undertaken research and
appropriate sort is in progress The level number serves as an lQ modifier
long-tenm study of the biology and biochemistry of the vanious alien
when detemining anescape route and a DX or AG modifier for slipping
species in the Renegade Legion universe This skill is vital if anyone with
bonds or dislocating various joints to create slack in bonds that will later
MedTech skill is going lo treat a creature outside of his own species.
beslipped.
The skill level serves as an lQ modifier for mostrolls to determine
Note A successful roll on this skill will not provide thc characler
what is safe for an alien toeat, or what hazards a worid may hold for him.
with an instant out from a dungerous siiuntion.For NPCs,the skill level
Whcnicombinedwith MedTechskillthehigherlevelofeitherskillisused
can modify LK in attempls to perfom such impossible escapes.
as an lO modificr for treating the wounded or ill
Humans & Narum are considered the same species for this skill
REPAIR TECH
Hurnan & Naram do not need Xenobiology to treat each othcr's specics.
Capital Ship
IQ15SKILL
Fighter/Small Craft
Grav Vehlcle
NonGruy Vehicle
CRYPTOGRAPHY
Small Equipment
A character with this skill can decode and encode messages, The
A character with one of theseskills can repair parts of the spccified
level serves as an TQ modifier when altempting to decode a message
subject,The level number serves as an lQ modifier both to determine if
without a keyA character's modified Qis also the value against which
the repairscan be made,and ifthey hold after they arcmade Theoumber
anothercharacterwill havetopithisskill whentrying todecode a message
of dice used to mnke the roll depends on how bad the damage was in the
encoded by this character.
first place and what sont of stpplies are availabie for the repair.
To repair a pant or piece of equipment, two rolls are made.One is
made by the player vs. his appropriaie Repuir Tech skill level+ IQ.with
any additional modifers for equipnent being used This roll is to
delenmine if the repair can be made and theresulis are knawn tminedi-
ately.
The sccond roll is miade by the Gamcmdster using the same lQ and
Repair Tech level modificr to sce if the repair holds. If the roll fails,the
Gamemaster then detenmines when the part gives way, It could be
immcdiateby,ocaftersevcrl hours ordays ofuse,

--- PAGE 28 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGOGGGGGGL
AGOGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
INDEX OF SKILLS
Skn
Requirements
Skill
Requirements
Acting/Mimic
IQ2
Mountaineening/Climbing
TQ10
Altemate Identity
1Q:13
Negotiation
1Q10
Eachrsa separate skill
Orbital Fire Support
TQ7
Ambush
IQ7
Pilot
IQ10.AG10
Appraisal
IQ7
Capital Ship
Archery
IQ2
FiehlerSamall Crat
Astronavigation
IQ1
Ground
Blnde
IQ2
Pole Wcapons
IQ3
Brawling/Pugilism
IQ2
Projcctile Firearns
IQ3
BouncePack Operations
IQ6
Protocol
IQ7
Bureaucmacy
TQ10
Quickdraw
1O10.DX13
Career Skills (CS)
IQ6
Each is o separale ski
Each is d separare skill
Repair Tech
IQ:13
Communications
IQ12
Capital Ship
P-COH
Fighter/Small Crat
VLCA
GravVehiele
Computer Security
1Q10
NonGrau Vehicle
Cryptography
IQ:15
Small Equipmer
Demolitions
IQ 10
Research
IQ11
Disguise
1Q:10
Scavenger/Tinker
Drop Pod Operations
Q8
Scuba
IQ8
ECM/ECCM
Sccurity Tech
1Q:10
Electronics
1Q10
Seduction
IQ8
Emvironmental Sunvival Skills
IQ8
Sleieht of Hand
IQ12.DX13
Arene
Special Interests (St)
IQ6
Hosvile
Each rs a separate skill
Temperate
Stealth
IQ7
Sirmtegy
IQ13
Urhan
Ground
Escape Artist
IO13.DX13.AG13
Naval
Forgery
IQ10
Sublight Drive
TQ10
FIL Drive
Support Weapons
IQ4
Gambling
Swimmng
1Q3
Garotte
TQ4
Swindling
IO.10,CH12
Gunnery Skills
IQ8.DX:10
Tactics
1Q:10
Capital Ship
Capital Ship
FiglueriSmallCraf
FighterSnall Craf
GrouRd
Ground
Interrogation
IQ11
Target Acquisition
IQ11
Knife/Knife Throwing
Capital Ship
Laser Firearms
IQ2
FighteriSmall Craff
Leadership
IQ10
Groumd
Lockpicking/Satecracking
1010
Tracking
1Q 10
Martial Arts
1012:DX10
Training
TQ8
Archery
Weapons Tech
IQ:10
Blade
Wtestling/Club
IQ3
Brau/ng/Pugilism
Xehobiology
IQ14
Knife/KajfeThrowang
Eachtsa separate skil
Pole Weapons
Xenoculture
Zero-G Operations
Each is dseparareskl
MedTech
IQ12
Zero-GOpcrations
1Q8.DX10

--- PAGE 29 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
CAREERPACKAGES
Career packages provide a quick and easy setof skills, They are
CREATINGA CUSTOMPACKAGE
grouped by type of Career Path (Free Trader, Navy,Legion, and Intelli-
gence), and are the fastest way to gcncrate a character. They generally
Group a set of skills together logically.Check with the GM to make
result in a higher rank than does an individully sclectcd set of skills.
sure that he considers the cuslom setof skills to be loeical, and to see ff
Packages are the mosi cormmoo way skills are selected,though piayers do
there are any skilis that he feels should ulso be tncluded in the puckage.
have the option of gencrating an individual set of skills.
For cximple, if putting togcther i Foreign Scrvice package for ambassa-
Onpages 35-39 are listed packages of skillsavailablefor a reduced
donal charactcrs, it would make sense to includc Bureaticracy. both
cost. The reduction in cost is a direct result of the formal training program
Communications skills, Cryptography,Diplomacy, Protocol, Seduction,
ineacharea.Foreach packagc,therearcminimumattributereguiremerits.
ind any two Xenocultures This totlsto a packnge of9 skilis,all at level
a cosin skill points,and the time ti years) that the packaee takes to
Lwhich normally costs 9 skill points.However,caneer packages are
complete Tf the character does not have the minimumt aitnbute levels
available at adiscount. For custom packages,the reduction allowed is 25
listed, he may not take the package Note that the enlisted skill packages
SCround up of the total cost which would put the Foreign Service
allow a character to select one or more skils from a list. IF taking an
package at 7points (9-25% =7)
enlisied package, he may only choose optionl skills for which he has the
Characters that create their own skill packages must age their
reguired atnbutes.For example,a characterwith lO 8 could choose an
characleronc year.forcverytwo skills'selected.
cenlisicd Naval Fleet career path, but he would have to takc Gunncry.
After skillshavebeen selected,the next part of charactercreation is
Capiinl Ship s his fl skill in the pnckage-theiothers all require a
todetermine therank ofthe character(using one ofthe Rank Tables orany
higher I.
other system ngreeable lo the GMy and roll on the Previous Experience
The career path chosen delemines the majority of a character's
and Injuries Charts. If the customized carecr wouldn't logically have
skills, remernber that characters may disregard the Career Packages
actual anks,use theIntelligence Careers Tableor something similar.The
entirely, selecting an individual set of skills, Chnracters caninot "cross
Carecr and Iojury Charts lisi the highlighis tand lowlighisl) of the
train" into other career paths, However,note that TOG has fighter pilots
character 's career up to the point that he begins play
within thelr ground forces, they use the Leglon Fighter/Smiall Craftcareer
path. Similarly,the Commonwealth Marine Corps has Aerospace trtits.
FREETRADERCAREERS
which use one of the Naval carecr paths.
Each Navaland Legion curecrpackageis furtherdivided intoOfficer
One of the most fascinating types of characters that can bc played in
and Enlisted packnees. Selecting an Officer package does not guarantce
Legionnaire is that of the Pree Trader. Characters that pursue a
that a character will have officer rank at the beginning of the gamie, nor.
merchant's skills ofien find themselves inieracting widh a wide rance of
does selecting an Enlisted package guarantee an enlisted rank A
othcr chaicters, in some of the more interesting places in Shinncdam
characler's beginning rank is detcrmincd later,cither by thc GM(to fithis
County.
campuign plan) or in Rank.Therefore,it is possible to have an enlisted
To create such a character,  player first must generaie a "'nomal"
character with the skills of an officer,or vice versa.cYou micht assune
military or intclligence character according to the rules listed. He can use
that tn officerwas broken down to enlisted nink,orthnt an cnlisted man
a Caneer Package or hecan individuallytailor hischaractertofithis nceds
received a battiefield promotion. In fact, you can incorporate the expla-
and desires.
nation of the unusual rank into the character s history.)
He then rolls con the Previous Experience and njuries Chnrts as per
However. for cach package there are one or hore rant mhiodjfiers.
the regular rulesfor character creation Once done however,the character
Notc the rank modifier for the package you take: you will use ft if you are
muslers out of the scrvice and becomes a civilian, At this tirne, the
undomly generating a nank in thenext step of character creation,(lf your
charactertakes his Prestige or Fane (whicheveris higher)and multiplies
GM assigns a rank, ignore the rank modifier.) With most packages, the
it by 1,o00.ooo, This is the number of Talents that he may apply towards
rank modifier also dcpends on your allegiance-to TOG,the Common-
the purchase of a ship. For exanple.with Prestige  and Fane 3, he gets
wenlth (CW), or the Renegade Legions (RL), (if your allegiance is to
S.million Talents, Purchasing a ship is the on/y thing that these Talents
some other govcmment,choose the modifierthat applies to the rank table
may be usod for. Once done, the character's Prestige Is redoced to zero
you'llbeusing.)
Cothermerchants aren'tlikelyto loanhim moneyorequipincnt, juston his
If the chnracter has skill points remaining after he has purchased a
good name, regardless of how prestigious he isD:he maintains his Fame,
package,he may purchase any cther skillor increase any skill without any
unless he leaves the area in which it applies..
additiconalaging
When purchasing a vessel the charaicter puts in the down payment
Ifacharacterdecidesnotto usea careerpacknge,he mayputtogether
(seeabove)andfinmcesthe restat (iD10+4)%simple annual intenest
an individual setof skills from the skills list, When doing so,he ages one
rate.
year.for every two skill points spent.
The Free Tradercharacter then adds 2 mcre yenrs tohis age and adds
a level 2 rating in Appraisal skill Cf he already has Appraisal skill, he
raises itby one levely

--- PAGE 30 [OCR] ---
OGOGGGGGGGGGGGGOG
NAVAL CAREER PATHS
A Naval career path provides a characler with all of the necessary
skills to function fn a milithry space senvice, Characters who select a
Naval career must concentrate in one of the following service branchs:
Flet, Fighter, Technical Support or the Marines.
FLEET
UseRank Table1 (for ToG,RL)
Use Rank Table2 (for CW)
Fleet service eraduates are nssigned to T-Space-capable ships or
facilities which support decp space/T-Space operations.
OFFICER
MinIQ1ZDX10.AG10
Costs 8 Skill Points
Adds 6 years to character's age
Take these skils:
Astronavigation
ECM/ECCM
FTLDrve
Gunnery.Capital Ship
Laser Fireanms
Leadership
Pilot,Capital Ship
Prolocol
Subllght Drive
Xenoculture (choose.onespecies)
Zero-G Operutions
Rank Modiners
TOG:+2
CW:+3
RL-+2
ENLISTED
Min.IQ8.DX10
Costs 3 Skill Points
Adds Z years to characler's age
Take these skills:
Laser Fireams
Protocol
Zero-G Operations
Take I of the following:
Astronavigation (lQ 11)
ECM/ECCM(IQ11)
FTLDrive(CQ11)
Gunnery,Capital Ship
Pilot,Capital ShipCQ1o,AGlo)
Sublight Drive (Q 10)
Rank Modifers
TOG:0
CW:+1
RL:0

--- PAGE 31 [OCR] ---
GGGOG
FIGHTER/SMALLCRAFT
TEGHNICAL SUPPORT
Use Rank TableItorTOG,RL)
Use Rank Tablefor TOG,RL)
UseRankTable2(for CW)
Use Rank Table2Yfor CW
The FighierSmall Craft branch trains in the operations of small
The Naval Technical Suppori branch trains technicians and mainte.
spacecraft which are not capable of T-Space flight and have linited
nance personnel in the art of servicing and repairing the complex equip-
cndurince-The training is primanily oriented tospace fighteroperatiors,
ment used by the Navy Personnel are assigned to ships and facilities as
though many enlisted men (and a few officers) who receive this training
nceded.
iressignedns pilotsforshuttlecrftrharineassaultboais aind othersmall
interplanetary vehicles,Renegade and Comimonwealth entisted.men are
OFFICER
also assigned to ground legions lo call in orbital bombardment missions
Min.IO 13.DX 10
in supponof ground actions.
CostsSkHPPonts
Inaddiiontonaval fighters,the Cominonwealihhasan independent
Adds 6 years to character's age
Acrospace Porce thutis tasked with controlling all non-FTL fighters and
small craft that are lissiened to system defense.
Take these skills:
Communications,P-Comm
OFFICER
CommunicntionsVLCA
Min.1O11.DX10.AG10
Computer Security
Costs S Ski Polints
Electronics
Adds 6 years to characler's age
Leadership
Prctocol
Take theseskills:
Repair Tech, Capital Ship
Astronavigation
Repair Tech, Fighter/Small Craf
Drop Pod Operations
Repair Tech. Smll Equipment
ECMUECCM
Sublight Drive
Gunneny,Fighter'Small Crafi
FTL Dnve
Laser Fireanns
Zero-G opcnons
Leadership
PilolFighterSmall Cran
Rank Modifiers
Protocol
TOG:+2
TactisFiehter/Small Graft
CW:43
Zcro G Operations
RL:+2
Rank Modifiers
ENLISTED
TOG+2
Min.IODXI0
CW:+3
Costs5Skill Poinls
RL+2
Adds 2 vears to charncler's age
ENLISTED
Take these skillst
Min.1O8.DX10
PrOtOCOI
Costs3 Skill Poins
Zero-GOpcrlions
Adds 2 years to character's age
Take 4of the following:
Tuke these skills:
Computer Security
Lnser Fireams
Electronics
Protocal
MedTech(1Q12)
Zero-G operations
Repair Tech (up to 3 ofplayer's cholce) (IQ 13)
Sublighi Drive
Take L of the following?
FiLDrve
Pilot,Fighter/SmallCrftCQ 1,AG to)
Gunnery,Fighier/Small Craft
Rank Modirers
Drop Pod Operations
TOG:0
ECM/ECCM(IOTI)
CW:+2
Orbital Fire Support (CWand RL only)
RLIO
Rank Moditers
TOG RLO
CW:+2
RL+2

--- PAGE 32 [OCR] ---
GGGGGL
AOOGGGGC
MARINES
LEGION CAREER PATHS
Use Rank Table3 (for TOG.RL)
A Legion career path provides the characler with all of the necessary
Use Rank TableS(Tor CW)
Marines arc uscd for Tour types of missions: shipboard and naval
skills tofunction in the ground/pianetary combalforces ofthe TOG,Com
monwealth, Renegade or other amiies. Characters who sclect a Legion
facility security, ship-to-ship boarding actions, scizure of planetary
brideeheads from space, and ground operations on low gravity/hostile
careermustchose aservicebranchin whichtoconcentratec Comhat Arms
or Technical Support, with Piehter/Small Craft an additional option for
environment worlds
TOG personnel
OFFICER
COMBATARMS
Min.1010.DX 10.AG 10
Use Rank Table3 (forTOGRL)
Costs9 Skill Points
Lse RankTable4for ow
Adds 4 years lo chnracter's age
The Combat Arms cumculum prepares thechancterfor servicewith
thegroundcombatelemcnts(Ammor.Infantry.orAillery oftheLegion
Take these skills:
Upon completing their training the characterns are assigned to a ground
Bounce Pack Openitions
combat unit
Drop Pod Operations
Laser Fireams
OFFICER
Leadership
Min.1012DX10.AG10
Pilot.Ground
Costs 8 Skill Points
Projectile Firelmis
Adds 4 years to character's age
Protocol
Sccurity Tech
Take these skills:
Suppor Weupons
Bounce Pack Opcratioas
Tactics Capital Ship
Demohtions
Tactics,Ground
Environmental Survival (choice)
Zero-G Operations
Gunneny,Ground
Leadership
Rank Modiiers
Manial Arts.Brawling/Pugilis
TOG:+3
MedTech
CW:4
Pilot, Ground
RL+3
Projcctile Firearms
Support Weapons
ENLISTED
Tactics,Ground
Min.IO8.DX 10
Rank Modifiers
Costs S Skill Points
TOG.+2
Adds 2 years.to characler's age
RL:+2
Take these skills:
Bounce Pack Operations
ENLISTED
Drop Pod Operations
Min.1Q8.DX10
Laser Fireamns
Costs4 Skill Polnts
Projecuile Fireams
Adds 2 vears to character's age
Zero-G Operations
Take these skills:
Take 2or'the following:
Bounce Pack Opcralions
Martial Arts (cholce (lO12)
Pnvironmentl Survivalchoice)
Gunnery.Ground Vehicle
Projectile Fireanns
Pilot,Ground Vehicle(lO1o,AG10)
Take 2 of the following:
Secunity Tech(l 10)
Support Weapons
Gunnery.Ground
MartialAris,Brawling/Pugilism (lQ12)
Rank Modifiers
Pilot,Ground lO lo,AG 10)
TOG:0
Support Weapons
CW:+1
Rank Modifiers
RL:0
TOG:0
CW:+2
RL-0

--- PAGE 33 [OCR] ---
GGGG
LEOHNOATSUPPORT
FIGHTER/SMALL CRAFT
Use Rank Table3(forTOG,RL)
Use Rank Table L P.4o (for TOG)
Use RankTable4tfor CW
TOG charucters who chose the fighter branch are tuined in the
Like its naval counterpan, the Ground Technical Support curricu-
operations of fighier crnft used to support ground operations of the
lum is geared to trin personnel in maintenance of its eguipment. Gradu-
Legion,Renegade and Commonwealth Legions have supporting fighter
ales ane assigned to Legions or to planetary-based facilities as needed.
units assigncd tothem by their respectve navies orthe Royal AeroSpace
Force ToG Legions, however,train and operate their own fiehter units.
OFFICER
Min.1Q 13
operations As such, TOG pilots are very skilled in ground attack and
Costs 8 Skill Points
point defense, but lack the necesstry navigational training to skilfully
Adds 6 years to characler's age
conductdeepspace intereeptibns.
Take these skills:
FFICER
Conmunications,P-Comm
Min.1O11.DX10.AG10
Computer Security
Costs7 Skill Points
ECM/ECCM
Adds 6years to character's ace
Electronics
Leadership
Take these shills:
MedTech
Drop Pod Operations
Projectile Firearms
ECM/ECCM
Repair Tech, Gray Vehicle
Gunnery, Fighter/Small Craft
Repair Tech,NonGray Vehicle
Laser Fireanms
Support Weapons
Leadership
Orbital Fire Support
Rank Modifiers
Pilot Fightec/Small Crfi
TOG: +2
Tactics, Fighter/Small Craft
E+MO
Zero-G Operations
RL1+2
Rank Modifier
ENLISTED
TOG:+3
Min.1Q 12
Cost S Skl Polnts
ENLISTED
Adds Z years lo character's age
Min.1O8.DX10
Costs3 Skill Points
Takethese skills
Adds Z years to character's age
Proicctile Fireams
Support Weapons
Take these skills:
Laser Fireams
Take 4 of the following:
Zero-G Operations
Communications,P-Comm
Computer Security
Tnke I of the following:
ECM/ECCM
Drop Pod Opcrations
Electronics
ECM/EGCM(IOI)
MedTech
Gunnery.Fiehier'Small Craft
Repair Tech, Grav Vehicle (IQ 13)
Orbial Fire Suppont
Repair Tech,NonGray Vehicle (IQ 13)
Repair Tech,Fighter/Simall Craft (TOG Only.IQ13)
Rank Modifier
TOG:41
Rank Modifiers
TOG:0
CW:+1
RL:0

--- PAGE 34 [OCR] ---
OGOGGG
INTELLIGENCE CAREER PATHS
INSURGENCYICOUNTER-INSURGENCYAGENT
Use Rank Table 6 tfor aln)
Each TO,Commonwealth and Renegade military branch (Naval
MinO12DX10
CostsazSkillPoints
ind Legion) have thcir own intelligence service.Additionally.TOG has
in indepeodeot intelligence scrvice known as the Lictor  while the
Adds 6yearsto character'sage
The Insurgcncy/Counter-Insurgency agent Ts effectively a blend
Renegades have operatives who are part of the Renegade Underground
between a well trained soldier and a deep cover agent. In the insurgency
Pinnlly the Commonwealih has the Roval Intelligence Service which
rolethis agentis capableof raising.training and leading a resistancegroup
openates independently of their military, Despite all this, the actual
training given to agenis is essentially the same no malter which service
character is capable of meeting a guerilla group on their own tenms and
conirols the agent lf a character chose an Inielligence career paih, he
should also chose a service branch: TOG Navy, Legions or Lictor.
defeating them.
Renegade Legionis Navy or Legions, Rencgade Underground, or Com-
Take these skills:
monwealth Royal Navy, Amed Forces or Intelligence Servicc.
Ambush
Comminications, P-Comm
DEEPCOVERACENT
Demolitions
Ue RankTable6(for all)
Drop Pod Operations
Environimental Survival (choosetwo)
Min.1O 13.DX10
Leadership
Costs lo Skil Points
Mirtial Arts (choosc one)
Adds 6 years to character's age
Negobation
Thedeep cover agent is alsoknown as a mole.He is trained to operate
Projectile Fireans
forlong periods of time in enemy heldterritory,blending in with the local
Scavengct/Tinker
population and out of contact wih his superiors, Decp Cover agents are
SecurityTech
triined for infonmation gathering, and assassination type missions. Most
Stealth
field operatives of the Renegade Underground and TOc's Extermal
Suppont Weapons
Affairs are deep cover agents,
Tracking
Training
Takethesesklls:
ActingMimic
Rank Modifiers
Altemate ldentity (one)
None
Career Skill (ehoice)
Communications,P.Comm
COURIER
Computer Security
UseRank Table6 tfor aln
Disguise
Environmental Survival,Urban
Min.1Q 15,DX10
Forgery
Cdstsio Skll Poinls
MartialArts (chcosc two)
Adds 4 years to character's age
Negotintion
With all of the sophisticated electronic monitoring devices, the
Projectile Fireanms
intelligence servlees oflen makeuseof thetimehonored counertodeliver
ScavengcrfTinker
infomation and equipmenttofield personncl,Thesc individuals mgst be
able lo maintain the vital communications link between otheroperatives
and their bases of opcritions
Rank Modifiers
Take these skills:
None
Communications,P-Comm
Communications,VLCA
Cryptography
Marial Arts (choose 2)
Ncgotiation
Projectile Fineurms
Protocol
Scavcnger/Tinker
Secunty Tech
Stealth
Tracking
Rank Modiniers
None

--- PAGE 35 [OCR] ---
IGGOG
AGGGGNG
RANK
Beginning characters in Leglonnaireshouldeach have a rank,either
RANKPOINTS
assigned bythe GM ortandomlydetennined,Whenassigningranks.GMs
Thereisa column labelledPoints"cneachranktnble,Thiscolumn
can use the tables of organization found later in this chapter.
lists how manyrank points mustbe collected in the next step of character
When randomiy determining a rank.coll 2Dio on one of the rank
creationthe Previous Expcncnce and Injunies Charts When a character
tables.Ifa characterchose a career package,that packagetells which rank
is assigncd a rank Ceither randomly or by the GMy. he should note down
table to usc, If hc chose his own set of skills, or customized a career
the Rank Points number forthnt rank Characters inthe Tntelligcncc
package, he should pick the rank thble most appropriate to his military
Services have no rank but still roll for Rank Points on Runk Table 6.
career in eitherof these last cases,he gets no packagemodifieron hisroll.
This roll for rink can be modified
Rrenns.as dn Archrkeleustes.mstgero Rank Pointr when roflang
-A modifierls listed for each carecr package and allegiancer it mst
on the Prevtos Eperienceand njury Charts in order to conplete his
beadded tothecharictersrollforrank
charocrer geheraton.
The GM may modify the roll. Thus, if a character has a wealthy
Aiheadidn'tuseacareerpackage.Asan wndercoveroperarive,she
senator fora father,he may find his roll for rank modified by +l for his
rolisonRank Table6CorintelligencecareersJand getsao.meanngthal
father sinflucnce.This can work both ways.Ifthatsame father has fallen
she mustger 7Rank Points before she stops rotling.
from grace the character'sroll might be modified by -.
Afer the roll,the chartcter s IQ und Luck score may be added
RANKTABLE1
together,and the sum divided by & (rounding down)This result (or just
a part of it) can increase or decrease the roll, as thc player sees fit. This
TOG NAVY
allows players lo move toward a desired rank.
Fleet
It is possible for a chnracter that chose an officer carccr package to
Fiehter/Small Cran
end up at an enlisted rank. Possibly.the cadet was discharged from the
includes TOG Legion Fighters
officer corps prior to being commissioned. Conversely.a character with
Technical Sopport
an enlisted carcer package could receive an officer rank. In this case,he
(Marines use Rank Table3)
probably received  field commission.
RLNAVY
Fleet
Brennns eniste in the TOGNavy asine the FieiferiSmall Cra
Ftchter/Small Cran
Oficer Career Package,To derermne his endine rant, he rolls 2Dlo.
Technical Support
getting d 2 and an &: This is modified by rhe TOG Navy Frghter'Small
(Marines use Rank Table3)
Crof Oficer runtmodinerfrcm thar career packaeef+2r When added
Roll
Points
Rank
fothe2D/0rekurhetotalis128+2+2OnRantTable1orthe
Eaisted Rank
TOGNavvithis gines himarankofArchikeleustes.
3.orless
Naftis Junior Grade
Hecan frytomodipthisfurtherf hewishes,using his Luck3and
Naffis
lO f/8.Adding the Two togetherrquals 2/.Dividing by 8 frourndinig
Diopos
downl.heeets22//swhtchmeanstharhecdnfrthermodinhisrol
Keleustes Junior Grude
by+2or-2.Thisbrinesthetofalpto14ordawttoJ0.srillleawinghim
78
Keleustes
HiththerankofArchiteleusres
OpicerRanks
Archikeleusies
15-16
Plutarchos Junitor Grade
17-20
Plutarchos
21-23
Navirchos
24
Commodor
25
Rear Admiral
26
Vice Admiral
27
13
Admiral
28
GrandAdmiral

--- PAGE 36 [OCR] ---
GGGG
GGGL
AGOG
RANKTABLE2
RANKTABLE3
CWROYALNAVY
TOG LEGIONS
CWROYALAEROSPAECORP
Combat Arms
Pleet
Technical Support
Fighter/Small Cran
TOGNAVY
Technical Support
Mariney
(Marines use Rank Table S)
RLLEGIONS
Roll
Points
Naval Rank/Aerospace Rank
ComhatArims
Enlisted Ranks
Technical Support
2 or less
Ordinary SetmanvAerocnftman
RLNAVY
Able Seaman/Leading Aerocraftman
Marines
Lead Rating/Corporal
Ron
Points
Rank
Pelty OfhicerSergeant
Enlisted Ranks
Chief Petty Officer/Flight Sergeant
T or less
Trianti
82
Warmant OfficerWamant Offieer
34
Oficer Ranky
Mastati
9-13
Sub-Lieutenant/Pilot Officer
Sergeant
14-15
Lieutenant/Flying Officer
Oficer Ranks
Lt. Commander/Flying Lieutenant
16-18
8-11
Opita
10
Commander/Sguadron Leader
12-14
Centunion
20
Captain/Wing Commander
15-17
Centunon Maximus
12
21
Commodore 2nd CLAGroup Commander
18-19
Legatus
22
Coimodore Ist Class/Aero Commnnder
20-23
Legaus Maximus
Rear AdmialAcro Commander
10
Prefect of the Legion
Vice AdmimlVice Aero Marshal
25
Brigadier General
16
AdmiraAcro Marshal
12
Major Gencral
Adminal of thc FlceChief Acro Marshal
Lieutenant General
18
Grund AdmiraLGrand Marshal
General
29
19
Sky Admiral/Sky Marshal
Grmnd General
RANKTABLE4
COMMONWEALTHARMEDFORCES
Combat Arms
Technical Support
Roll
Points
Rank
Enlisted Ranks
t or less
Private
Corporal
Sergeant
45
Sergeant Major
Staff Sergeant Major
Wrraot
Oficer Ranks
2nd Lieutenant
Lieutenant
14-15
Captain
16-17
10
Major
18-19
Lieutenant Colonel
20-22
Colonel
23
Bngadier
24
14
Major Genenl
25
Lieulenant General
26
16
General
27
17
Field Marshal
28
18
Grind Mishal

--- PAGE 37 [OCR] ---
AOOOGGOGGGGGGGGGG
GOGGG
RANKTABLES
A Heaidquarters platoon has thrce vehicles one Supply, one Main-
tenance,and one Recovery.A Headgusnters Century has three platoons.
onc Supply (withrecovery vehicles),one Comimand platoon (made ofof
COMMONWEALTHNAVY
converted comnbat vchicles that cxchangc thcir wcapons for communica-
Marine Corps
tions euipment) and one Medical Evac platocn, A Headguarters Cohort
Rell
Points
Rank
has vanous Centunies assigned io il In TOG and Renegade organizations
Enisred Ranks
there is an Administrative Century,a Commund Century,an Intellignce
1 or less:
Marine
Century,and a Liaison Century (for coordinnting netivities with the Navy
Lance Corponl
and any attached ground suppont Wingsy.
Corporal
The numbering system used to identify units is also fairhy standard-
Color Sergeant
tzed throughout thc Galaxy.Units are identified by the designation of the
5-6
Ouartennnster Sergeant
Century.its Cohort number and then its Legion number, Forexample thc
7-8
Warrant Officer
founh Century of the third Cohort of the 9999th Infantry Legion would
Opicer Ranks
be wriuten as"TV Century 3/9999th Infantry".Conmonwcalth designt-
9-11
2nd Leutenant
tions follow a similar patlem, but Arahic numcrals are used thiroughout
12-14
Lleutenant
and sometimes a leuer is used to designate che Century.
15-16
Captain
10
17-18
Major
TOG LEGIONORGANIZATION
19-20
Liculenant Colonel
12
21-22
Coloncl
Brigadier
23-24
13
The basic ground forces unit is thc Legion, Modeled aftcr the'early
Major General
25-26
Impcrial Roman legions (with some variation toaccount forthecomplex-
27
Leutenant General
ity of modem oquipment) they all shire the same basic structure.
28
Genenl
A TOG Legion consisisof iocombat Cohorts, a supporing artillery
Grand Marshal
29
Manus, a supply Manus, a Military police Cohort a Signal Cohort, an
Engineer Cohort, and Headguurters units, The Legion is commanded by
RANKTABLE6
a Prefect of the Legion and has a Legatus Maximus as his executive
officer.
The striking arm of the Legion are its lo combat Cohorts, The Ist
INIELLIGENCEGAREERS
Cohort is always manned by the best combat troops in the Legion and are
Roll
Points
issucd heavierequipmentthan the other Cohorts.Thefirst Cohortconsists
3:orless
ofa Headguaters Century of 9 support vehicles,and 10 combat Centuries.
45
The other 9 Cohorts control only6combat Centunies each,along with
6-8
Headquarters Century. Cohorts are commanded by a Centurion Maxi-
9-11
mus, while a Century is comumanded by a Centurion.
12-14
The combut Cohonts are grouped for specific missions into tempo-
15-17
10
rury detachmenis of 2 to S. Cohonts, each calied a Manus.Depending an
18-20
the Manus'mission,the Legion's Prefectcan assign it support units from
21-24
the irtillery, signal supply,MP or engineer elements A Legion has
25
13
sufficicntadditional Headquanters Centunes to fom S separite Manus.A
Manus is commanded by a Legalus.
GROUND ORGANIZATION
The Artillery Manus of the Legion consist of 3 Cohorts of Artillery.
I Air Defense Cohort, and a Rocket Century.Thc Rocket Century is
After hundreds of years of war almost all armnies have adopted the
capableof launching satellftes (primarilyThors orObservation satellites)
samnestructure fortheirbasic combatunit,the CenturyA Century is made
into a planctary orbi,Autillery Cohorts are assiencd to a Manus asintact
up of 3 line Platoons and one Headquarters Platoon. The line Platoons are
units, they are fever broken up.The Air Defense Cohort's Centuries are
made of the.vehicles and/or personncl nceded to camy out its mission. If
issigned plecemeal to tndividul Manus or to rear area defense. The
the Century is a Signnl unit the line Platoons wil be made up of Signal
Rocket Century is always direcily controlled by the Legion's Headquar-
units,Amor Platcons use Annored vehicles,The Headguarters Platoon
ten Cohont.
provides supply, Maintenance and Balilefield Recovery asseis.
The Supply Manus controls the ictivities of the Legion 's mainte.
Three vehicies make up a Platoon If the Plaloon has infantry,they
nance, supply,medical, and odher adminisirative units These elements
ane arraneed inio sguads of 8 men each,with a vehicle assiened to
are normally assigned as nceded to suppont the operations of thedifferent
transpont each squad.
Manus
Combat Centuries contain both infaniry and tanks,along with some
The Signal Cohort is nesponsible for all aspects ofcommunications.
type of indirect fire weapon, such as a mortar. The typical Amored
They insure that Legion Headquarters is ablc to communicate with its far-
Century has two platoonis of tanks and onc platoon of armored infantry.
luag Manus, suppont units and higher Headguarters, This mission in.
An Amored Infantry Centuryreverses thatratio,twoplaloons ofinfantry
cludes the usc and aintenance of communications satellites, though
andoneplatoon of tanks.
launching is the respoisibililyof the Rocket Ccntury,The Signal Cohont

--- PAGE 38 [OCR] ---
is also.responsible for signal intelligence, signal security and electronic
STRIKELEGION
counter-mcasures, Sienal units are assignod by individual platoons to
Strike Legions are the front line comhat Iroops of TOG.Their
vanious Headguarters as nceded
mission is to destroy all cncmy forces that they encounter. Thcy are not
The Engineer Cohont is responsible for the construction and main-
expected to garison a planet, justto seize it
tenance of any pennanent Legion facilities, clearing or reducing ob-
A Stnke Legion consist of f Heavy Grav Amor Cohort and 9
stacles, erecting barricades, and constnicting fortificitions, The Cohort
Medium Grav Armor Cohorts (this mixture may vary)The Heavy Gray
has 3 combat cngincer Centunies and 3 consiruction eneineer.Centunes.
Armor Cohort ts the first Cohont and consist of 4 Heavy Centuries, 3
The Ccmbal eneincer Cenluries arc assigncd o Manus as needed, while
Medium Cennries and 3 Light Ceatunes of Grav Annor.
the Construction Engineers normally are used to consirucl and fortify
The Medium Cohorts each coatain 3 Medium and 3 Light Gray
supply or maintennnce depots in the rear areas.
AmorCohorts.
The Military Police Cohonl consists of6line Centurnies and functions
All vehicles in the Strike Legion arc equipped with Gravdnives.This
as a rear area security force.Additionally,it is used to maintainmilitary
allows the Legion to use the strategic and tnctical advininges of Grav:
discipline within the Leeion, The Mp Cohort is under the direct control
drives to their fullest extent, because their logisticai tail is as maneuver-
of the Leeion.commander and only rarely is it divided up to support
able as the combat elements.
Manus operations.
A Stnke Legion is almost always peminnenily assigncd a Space
Depending on its mission a Legion can be assigned a Wing of sup
Fighter Wing. to provide it with organic ground suppont and local air/
ponting space craft and/or an auxiliary unil known as an Auxilia.An Aux-
space superiority.The StrkeLegion or its Fighter Wing does nothave any
ilia has 4 to 6 Cohorts of special troops, such as Penil Infantry.Military
organic intersiellar capabilities,All tnterstellar transports are under the
Police, Marine Assaukt Troops, or. Population Control Troops (riot po.
direct control of the Imperial Navy.
liceAn Auxilia isabout the stzc of a Manus Unlike a Manus it has
The Strike Legion has tremendous offensive fure power available
organic support troops assigned to it This allows thc Auxilia to operate
but it is very deficicnt incombat infantry.This is fectified by assigning the
without additional support troops fora limited time,In contrast,a Manus
Sunike Legion an Auxilia of somc type of infantry.The Strike Lcgion has
is totally dependent on Legion suppont units to maintain it in the ficld.
only 1536 combat infintrymen, while an Infantry Auxilia typically has
over 2ooo legionnaires Depending on the type of conbat expccied and
LEGIONDESIGNATIONS
the likelihood of opposition by the population at largc,an cntire Infantry
There are S million TOG Legions along with innumcrable special
or Garrison Legion might be attached to suppont the Stnike Legion.
ized Auxilin The majonity of TOG legions are designaled as Stnike.
Infantry.or Gaison Legions.All follow the basic Lcgion siructure,but
there is some deviation both in organizational structure and the in type of
Cohort assigned.
Manus
Cohon
Cohont
Manus
Cohon
TOG Strike Legion

--- PAGE 39 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGOGGGGGL
AGGGGGOGGGGGGGGGGG
INFANIRYLEGION
TOGPENALINFANTRYAUXILIA
Infantry Leglons areviewed by the TOG highcommand as defensive
TOo maintnins Penal Infuntry Auxilia as a tmeans to disciplinc
troops whose mission Is to hold the ground won by the Stnke Legions.
soldirs.whohave commined crimesthatncmallywould havesentenced
A typical Infantry Lcgion has L Heavy Gray Amior Cohort, 2
them to prison t hard labor. Rathcr than losc the services of conbat
Cohorts of Medium Grav Amor and 7 Cohorts of Grav Amored Infintry,
veicrans, Toc offers them a chance.to redeem thcmselvcs.Service in a
All vehicles in a Iront line Intantry Legion use Grav drives. The
Penal Infantry unit is for onc campaign only. no matter what the actual
Supply and Anillery Manusof Infantry Legions assigned torearareas use
sentence was.Survivors of the campaign are re-instated at theirold mnks,
ground vehicles fortransportation This means these second line units are
thoueh assiened to new units, Given the 75% casuality rate thal most
tied to a relntively fixed logistical train, but the cost of raising and
Penal Infantry units suffer,no one who survives onc campaign in a Penal
rmaintaining the second line tinits are less, Ifa sccond line Infantry Legion
Infantry unit wanis to be reassigned again.
is assigned to the froril ils suppod and artillery vehicles are usually
Some tines called Volunteer Assaull units, Pcnal Infantry units ure
teplaced with Grav Vehicles.
ssigned to Stnke Legions which have to fight in buili-up areas such as
An Infantry Legion can bc assigned a Space Fighler Wing. bul
Cities or fontified depotse All Headguurers and support uinits arc moumted
normally it is nol,leaving ground suppont and space superiority to Naval
on Grav vehicles.The Penal units are carricd in unannorcd ground trans.
units.
ports. In an assault, the Centuries are broken up by squads and ride on the
Auxilia are assigned to the Infantry Legion as nccded Typical
outsideoftheatincking Grav ianks imtothe city.Oncetherethey dismount
Auxilia assignments include Grav Amor Air/Space Defense,or Con
and fiehi on foot They normally are not equipped with'bounce packs.
Discipline is maintained by a Cohort of MP's mounted in Medium
stnuction units.
All of TOG's 286 Praetorian Guard units are Infantry Legions.A1l
Gruy tanks and APCs,Many of thesc MP units arc composed of SSora.
Praetoniun units are composed of I Heavy Gray Ammor Cohort,2 Cohorts
Their mcial tendencies make them unlikely to sympsthize with the
of Medium Gray Amor and 7Cohorts of Gray.Amored Infantry.All
prisoners.
infantry arc carricd in medium Grav APCs.Every Cohont contains lo
Centurles ratherthanG.They pernanently have an Auxilia ot Heavy Gray
RLANDCWORGANIZATION
Amor aruched,along witha permanent reinforced Fighicr Wing.
Rencgade Legion ground forces are organized in the sane manner
as TOGLegions,with locombal Cohorts,an artillery Manis and suppon
GARRISONLEGION
troops, Rank stnictures are the samc.,as is thc organization of the varicus
Garrison Legions are'the most numerous Leeions in the TOG
types of Cohorts and Centunes, Many Renegade Legions have forcgone
military.AGarrison Legion sprimarymission ispopulaticn control,over
the Stnke or Tnfantry designutions for othermore romantic designations.
and nbove norumal civilian police activitics: TOG doctrine calls for the
such as the 932nd Air Mobile Renegade Lcgion (organizcd as a front line
stationing of I Gamison Legion per Imillion populationthata planet has.
TOG Infantry Legionj.or the S7glst Heavy Anmored Minerva Legiod
While it is capable of fighting tnacioushy ngainst an invading Strike or
Corganized likea TOG Surike Legion, Therc trc a few key differences
Infantry Legion, its lack of mobility and the lower quality of its legione
between the Renegade's Legion stnucture and their TOG counterparts.
naires guarantees thut it will eventually be defeated by Grav mounted
Organizationally,the combat Cohoris are permanently assigned to
TrOOS.
one of4 Manus.The 1st Manustor Manus PrimusJcontains thestCohort
A typical Garison Legion has t Heavy Armor Cohort (again the
and three other Cohotts.The other 3 Manus are assiened 2 Cohonts cach
First Cohon.l Cohon of Medium Amnor.and & CohortsofAmcred or
The vehicles of the fifih Manus are used to supplernent the Headquarters
Airmobile Infantry,The Military Police Cohort is up-graded lo Manus
clentents of the Manus Primus. Suppont troops are assigned as-needed
size and contains I Military Police Cohortand 3 Cohorts of Riot Control
from the suppon elements.
Troops. The Enginccr Cohort has only three Centuries of construction
This organization allows the combat Cohorts to develop the tcam-
troops and the Artillery Manus exchanges 2 Cohorts of Armored artillery
work nccessary lo becone a well-iniegrated fighting force, while at the
for 2 Air Defense Cohorts.
sane time gives the Prefect of the Legionthe tactical fexibility to tailor
The Garrison Legion does nor posses any organic grav vehicles, All
a Manus for a specific combar mission by assigning it'suppontelcments.
of the Legion's vehicleareeither hover,whccled ortracked This makes
Another major differencc is that the military policeunit.of a Rene.
the Gaison Lcgion very immobile in comparison to a conventional
gade Legion is only at Century rather than Cohont strength.Renegade and
mililary unit but keeps its costs low.The vulnenability of the Garrison
Commonwealth unitsscemto havefewerrearareasccurty and discipline
Leeion s logistical bases are recognized by the ToG High Cotnmind.
problems than their TOG counterpans.
Two ndditional Air Defense Cohorts are assieried to redress the balince
The Renegade ground forces number 300.O00 Legions along with a
somewhatthough al h cost of losing z/3 of their ground anilleny
significant numbcrof Auxilia Auxilia and Fighter Wings are assigncd to
support
the Legion in the sime manner as ToG assignments, Or the Renegade
Normally a Gamison Legion is not assigned any ground suppont
Legions thrceare cldssifiedas Praetorian the Sst,the6Sthand the to9th.
spacecrafl If grouind suppont is nceded the local Navy comminder is
Unlike TOG forces,there are no Renegade Garmison Legions.
capected to provide it.
There are 200.oo0 Legions in thc Commcnwealith's Armed Forces
If guemilla ictivity is especially Large,the Garrison Leelon might
(CAF),Halfofthese Legions are organized andoperuted on the Renegade
have a Grav or Heavy VTOL Trunspon Auxilia assigncd to it. This
model The other half represent a wide variety planetary and racial
Auxilia iscapable of simultancously lifting 3 Infnntry Cohorts along with
militanyorganizatlons and nomenclature Onc predomunantnomencla-
their organic vehucles.
uredilTerencc is t Manus ane called Bngades. Auxilia are knownas
Regiments. Coborts are Baluilions, and Centuries are Companies.

--- PAGE 40 [OCR] ---
GGUGG
MP
Mantts
Manus
Cohort
Manus
HQ
Cohor!
Cohort
Renegade Strike Legion
The miost common non-Renegade CAF orglnizations are the Bau
NARAMSPECIALFORCESREGIMENT
frin,Bekkaland KessRith
A Naram Special Fonces Regiment is trained In non-conventional
"Baufrinunits are oniy Regimental size.They are self sufficient at
warfare tind employed in general sabotage and reconnaissancemissions,
the bartalion level and have a very decentralized command structure,A
Thy also are able to raise,train,and lead guenlla fonces from the local
typical Baufrin Amored Regiment consisis of 4 Medium Amored Bat-
populaticn on occupied planets.Thcyarc excellent stay-bchind forces on
talions of 5 Tine Companles each The Battalicn has an orgaric Artillery
plancs ovemun by TOG.
Comnpanyand has onganicmaintenancemedical,signal,MP and supply
The Regimcntismade upof4 line Battalions,with4 line Companies
cach,The line Companies have four line Platoons each. Supply and Signal
platoons.
A"B'ckkal unit is paltemed after the typical Naram military
conpanies are allached at the Reeimental lewcl.
The Regiment has no organic vehicles All equipment is man
organization, They are highly mobile, lighily amored,and qual in sizc
toa Lcgion A B'ekkal tcgion contains3permanent Brigadeseach with
packed, though by the use of bouncc packs and anii-gray cargo skids.
4 Baltalions of the samnc size and type.There are never any Heavy Tanks
mobility isfairly high.Never-the-less alleguipment used bythe Regiment
assigned to B ckkal Legion,though aKessRith Ammor Regiment might
Can be broken down into man-sizc loads and carried without the use of
be atnched. Thc majority ofa B'ekkal Battalion's mobileunits ate Lighi
anti-erav.devices.
anmnored vehicles while the remaindcr are Mediums Supporting units are
In raid operations the Regiment is insened by drop pod or landed
thc samc as for a Renegade Legion.
directly on the target by ship. Raids are conducted by forces of at least
A KessRith" unit follows the organizational structure of the
Company size or more. If the raiders landed in a vehicle they are extracted
KessRith Empire, They are heavily annored, powerful and relatively
in the same manner. Extraction to orbilal vehicles is much more difficult
slow.KessRiths organize in groups of four. There are 4 linc Cothpanies
and many times the raiders will break into squad-size units and vanish into
toa Battation.4linc Baitalionistoa Bnigadeand4lineBnidgestoa Legion
the countryside to wage a guenilln war.
There are a few deviaions to this rule,but for the most part it is very
Guerilla operations by the Regiment are carried out in a slightly
strictly adhcred to.AKessRith Battalion has an organic Anillery Platoon,
diferent manner. Insertion is by drop pod, or the Regiment can be
deployed as a stay-behind force prior to TOG occupation. The Regiment
unlikeothermilitaryorganizations.

--- PAGE 41 [OCR] ---
UUGGGGL
toons and a Headquarters Company. but they have no organic vehicles
All heavy quipment is mouinted on unarmored grav sleds, while the
Inlantry rc cguipped with bounce packs, In addition to traditional
infantry tactics,Murines are trained in zero-G/vacuum combat,drop pod
operaticns, and shipboard assaults.
The Assault Bont Company is composed of 12 small streamlined
space shuules capable of lining I squad or picce of equipment ach The
ReE
boats have very linke wcaponry.but have high shicld ratings,thick amor.
and good acccleration, The boats mre designcd to lund their cargo safely
in the fnce of stiff opposition They can provide limited air support but
Naram Special
it is almostalways inferiortothat ofa fighter.The Assaultboats allow the
Battalion to land a reinforced Company in one lif If the Marine
Forces Regiment
Companies land in drop pods, the Baitalion can land all of fts combat
clements in onc wave.
44
The Artillery Company consists of a Headqurters Plaloon, 2 Pla-
toons of conventional arillery and one air defense Platoon Like the
Infantry.all of thc arillery picces are mounied on unumored grv sleds.
Each Asstult boal can cay one artillery picce and its cnew.
The Engineer Company is composed of 3 Platoons of construction
openies as individunl squads with each squad reporting to its higher
engincers. The construction engineers are used to rapidly fortify a
headquarters, Squad members have no knowiedge of the locations or
bridgehead captuned by the Infantry.The Platoons include three squods
operational ordens of other squads or headquarters This cell type opera-
of construction engincers, and thcir necessary equipment, Again all
tion insures that Too sccunity forces are unable to climinnte more than
equipment is Grav sledmounted
oneunitalalime.
Beyond standard infantry and weapons training,each member of a
NAVALORGANIZATION
Special Forces squad is trained in some military speclalty such as
medicine.communications,enginecring,maintenance.ctc.Theyalsoare
Naval organization is based on the Banleship Squadron This force
heavily croes-irained in the use of cnemy weapons and construction'of
Is powerful cnough to handle most missions and serves s the basic
field-expedienteguipment.A sqund isexpecled tobe ableiotruin and lead
building block for larger fornations In the navies of the Reneeade
a Company-sized unit of local guerillas.
Leglon universe, there are hundreds of thousands of these Squndrong.
Naram Special Forces units can operalc casily on any Human or
Like their.counicrpans on the ground, the vast majority of these are
Naran woddsSora Baufrin and KessRithSpecial Forces units alsoexist
reserve Deets
to operale on TOG worlds where those races predominate.
A Batleship Squadron is usually stationed at a major naval basc and
spends most of iis time at a docking facility or in Gstable orbit Tts active
VAUVUSAR VOLUNTEER MARINEBATTALION
duty consists of patrols lasting a month or two. Only rirely are ships
There are only a few Vauvusar units operating with the Common-
reassigned to another sgundron Smaller ships see extensive independent
wealthAllofthescunits arecomposedofyolunlecrs fromthe Magellanic
courier duty at the order of the Squadron.commander.
Republic, since the Republic itself is neutral in the conflicts thal are
occuring in the Milky Way.
BATILESHIP SOUADRON ORGANIZATION
Vauvusar Mannes, as ure all Marine forces,arc controlled directly
Naval orginization is based on the Battleship Sguadron, though
by the Navy and have thrce missions: shipbodrd security. ship- to ship
oiher Sguadron oreantzations exist A typical Batileship Squadron is
boarding actions and seizure of planetary bridgeheads.The Batalion has
composed of a single Baltleship acting as the flagship, a single cruiser.
8 Companies: 3 Companicsof Bounce Infantry,I Company of Assault
two frigates,fourdestroyersand two patrol class ships,nomallycscont
boats,  Artillery Company,I Engincer Company, a Supply Company.
class ships. A Batieship Sguadron can operate a Wing of fighicrs and
and a Headguarters Company.
camyanywherefromn a Cohorttoa Auxiliaof Marines.Squadrons operate
The Infantry Conpanies are organized nommally. with 3 line Pla-
independently or in Groups that aremadeupof 2 io Sdifferent Squadrons.
CA
Raltalan
Typical BattleShip Squadron
Vauvusar Volunteer Marine Battalion

--- PAGE 42 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGG
GGGGGGGGGGGOGGGGGL
FIGHTERWINGORGANIZATION
NAVALTERMINOLOGY
Class
Abbr.e
Abbc.
The basic bullding block of any Fighter Wing is the Squadron,which
RGV
8B
Baltleship
Figale Class Caier
consists of 6 fighiens as wellas a small Headguaricrs staff ol crew chiets
BRV
Baldeship Class Camcr
Canveule
for the individual fighters and some idministrative personncl, Four
Chuiser
CA
PCV
Corvelle Clnss Ghmer
Squadrons make up a Flight which also has administrative and mainte-
GAV
Cniser Clase Camer
Fccort
Destroyer
PEY
nance personnel assigned toit.Thrce Flights are a Group,and five Groups
Ewo Css Cricr
DOV
Destroyer Class Camer
make up t Wing. for a totalof 36o fighiers in a typical Fighier Wing In
Gunboat
Fngae
T-Soact Cpublc
addition to normal maintenanceand supply personnel the Wing has other
assets assigned to it All Groups have a Century of Marines, or other
secunity personnel.to providesecunity fortheunit sinstnllntions,Alsoat
FIGIIERNAYALUNITCOMMANDS
CW Nay
TOC/Renecade
Wing Headounrters there is nomnallya derachment of intellipence ana-
CW Aerospace
Sub-Lieudenint
FlehleriSmall Cran Archikclcuutes
Phlo Oficer
lysts who are responsible for providing the unit with timely tuctical
Pluluchos JG
Lieutnunt
PairEscon
Fying Onicer
intelligence.lf the Wing operates out of a system, rathcr shan a large
E.Commander
Plularchos
SguadronFGDn
Sqd Leader
carier or Battleship Group,a Squadron or even a Group of light patrol
Commander
Flleht
Plulurchos
Sqd Leadar
class caniers are nomally assignedtoitThe Wing conmandernormally
Captnin
Navanchos
WinBB/CA
Wing Cmmdr
allocates these ships to specific squadrons that require T-Space capnbili-
Fighter Groups
Squadrons
Commodore
ties in ordertoacconplish theirmissions.
Cormimodore FCGroup Cmmdr
Croops
Rear Adminl
Vice Admiral
GROUND UNITCONMANDS
TOG/Reneeade
Roval Army
CWMarines
Leelon
Prefect
Major-Oetcnl
Major-General
First Mnus!
Regiment
Colonel
Lceahus.Maximus
Colonel
Man/Bridage
Legatus
Colonet
LLColonel
CohoruBattnlion
Cenhmnon Maximirs
L, Colonel
Captiin
Century/Campiny
Cenlrion
Captain
Opito
Znd Leulenant
PMatoon
2ndieuenan
Sergeant
Sergeant
Vehide/Sqund
Color-Sergcant
Symbol
Dedenlion
Fighter Wing
ToG & Rencade Comonealth
Medium Gray Annor
Lcion
Leglon
Manis
Brleade
Heavy Grav Amor
Aidlls
Repiment
Cohori
Centory
LightravAmhor
Conpany
INTELLIGENCEORGANIZATION
0eMatoon
Squpd
Amor Grav Anillery
Sauod
Intelligence operatives nonnally operate independently or in groups
Engineers
Infantry
of no morc than 2 or 3, Contact with headquadiers is nonmally.accon-
Headquarters
plished though asinglc intermedinry known as acontrol.Thecontrol may
Amiored Grav Infantry
phvsicallymeetwith the operative,orcommunkcatlons mighibeaccon-
Modical
plished via message drops andorclandestine P-Comm communicaions.
Bounce Infantry
The primary operaling principle of all intelligence operations ts to
Signal
Penal Infaritiry
minimirethedamage Itisassumedthalall operatives will becaughtahd
Miltary Police
forced to tcll everything thal thcy know. Thus operatives are given only
Spuce &Air Defense
cnough inlonnationtoaccomplishtheirmission.andartinmes cven some
Maintainace
disinforhaion
OrbtalRocterLuncher
The organization for Insurgency/Counter Insurgedcyagentsismore
Supply
formalized, Typically it follows a military organization like the Naram
Fehler
Specinl Forces Regiments in the Commonwealth, Teams of eight to
Ground Transport
Special Fonces
twelvc individuals operate together, with each one being a spccialist in
Anti-Gray.Tmanspont
one field and.cross-trained in one other, Like Intellieence operatives,
Marine Infaatry
theseindividuals operalein a cell-stnicture organization,with cachteam
Space Assuali Transpont
only knowing.enough to allow thein to uccomplish their mission and
Gray AmorEnrineer
having minimal contact with other teams on the planet.
Combal Bounce Enginocrs

--- PAGE 43 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGOGOGU
OOOOGL
PREVIOUSEXPERIENCE
These charts provide background for a beginning character. He
Some descriptions can be worked into a chiracler s background and
makes several passes through them Each pass represents about i year,
developed'as thacharncterprogresses.Forexample,withthe result,"You
During a pass his skills add altributes may be raised, and he may gain
let an enemy you had at your mercy escipe,the enemy could have bcen
Prestige. Injury is possible, but he won't die.
humuliated and want feveoge, or could retum.the favor. If it is posible,
To bcgin,roll 2Dlo on Expenence Chiant L, Mostof the time,one
both GM and player should try to work the more interesting descriptive
pass is simpby one roll on Chan l. However.if direcied to do so,then roll
iesuitsintothcgamc.
2Dio on eiherchant2ACToG)or 2B (RLand CWy.From there.you
mightbescnton toCharts3A TOG).3B(RLand CW),or3Ctall forces).
Brennus dnd Arhed edch ran throueh the Career charis for& years
Along the way.you are told how to adjust his skills, altributes, Prestigc.
&rollsjbeforetheyatfainedrheirrantscfodnd Z.Theyalsonoware31
nnd accumulaled Rank Points.
dd s3,respectively.and cameawdy a bir more eiprienced Brenhns
Throughout the chans, there are instructions io add Rank Points. At
hegin play with Pilot,FighrerSmall Craf S,Guneny FrehreriSal
the stantof thesecharts,allcharacters have zero Rank Points,Asyou roll
GraftS,Leddership3and onepointadded to hisAeility (mdking if a I2).
on the charts, kcepa running total of the Rank Points you gain. You rolil
A/hea,vrtngcoverrlyanainsrTOc.now has CoputerSecurityloc)
until you have at leastas many Rank Points as your characier's final rank
and RepdrTech.Small EquipmentS She alsoearneda poimrof Prestige
thatthe Rinks chapter called for. If you get more than enough,you don't
for herservece fo the Uhderground.
receive a higher rank
Inourhoexanples.Brenus.iharankofArchikeleuates.mst
accumulate at ledsto Rant Poins on the Erperience Chants.Althea mus!
fofalatleasr 7Rank Points ont thecharts.
Beforeeach pass through the charts,you must make a few choices.
You must designate.
- A primary and a secondary skill you are looking to improve.
Occasionally.you will be told to raise askill's level The instructions will
designate either a primary skil (P),a secondary skill (Syor an other skin
(O), Therefore, you must know beforehand which is your primary skill
ind which is your secondary skill, The prinaryand sccondary skills
cannot be the same skill, but they may be relaicd (such as Pilot Fiehier/
Small Craft and Ounnery.Fighter/Small Craft.Noskill can beraised past
levei lo wih thesc charts.
 A primary and sccondury busic aturibute you are looking to
improvc No attribute may be raised past level ls with these charts.
(Prestigc and the Edge are not basic atinbutes, though Prestige may get
a boost from timeto time.
If told to raise an orher skill cOy or atibute,choose one atrandom
from those which aren't curently primary or secondary choices, If the
note "(x2yis added, raise two random skills, rather than just onc.
Before any pass through the charts, you may change either or both
of your choices,switch thcm,or kcepthcm thesamc.
Occasionally you will be told to make a saving roll. Suving rolls are
expluined in Playing the Gamie these abbreviated instructions wil let
you use the charts here. Roll the number of dice indicated and total them.
If you roll the valuc of the atnibute mientioried, or below it you have
succeeded. If you roll over thc vidue of the annbute. you have missed the
roll.if you missed,record thenumber by which youmissedand followthe
instructons.
Characters in the intelligence scrvices should also roll on the chars
and modify their scores, However, they should ienore most of the text
descnptions,whicharemoredescriptiveofaunifomnedsoldier slifethan
thatofan inlelligencc.operative.

--- PAGE 44 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGGGOGGOGGGGG
EXPERIENOECHARTI
Roll
Result
You were involved in a secret operation for which you got special training
+2P
+lPreshee
+/Rak Potn
You managed to avoid capture by enemy forces, despite the fact that the ericmy hud your forces virtually
cutoft.
+2 Pskil
+2 S5k
+I Rart Point
You ran intounexpected trouble in a supposedly safe zonc.
+25SA
+2RankPoinrs
You received advanced training during the year.
+2Pskill
Roll on Experience Chart 2A (TOG)or2B (RL and CW)
A couple of skinishes with enemy forces gave you a tasie of real life during the year.
+IRamk Poim
You put the year to good use, working hard al your training
+7P
+S
You ve had a more exciting time watching clouds form than you did in this year of service.
10
Lifeis cithcr"Hurry up!worWait.Thisycar ftwas.Wait."
Roll on Experience Chart2ATOG) or2B (RLand CW)
12
If boredom was an ore you hit the Mother Lode this year.
The closest you camc to serious hamn in this year was nearhy dying of boredom.
14
A"Run and Gun"series of fighis gave you a chance to put your skills to good use
+ISSAN
+4 Rank Pont
An action in which you figured prominently miade the media broadcasts.You're a star! More importantly
so were your supenor officers!
47Preshige
+5.RankPoinrs
Roll on Epericnce Chirt2ATOG)or2B (RLand CW).
17
During a planetary pacification action you saw atrocities you know you will never forget.
+2Ps
18
Pressed into service in a positon you do not normally occupy. you perform admirably.
19
Captured by enemy forces, you managed to escape and retum to your unit afier a few misadventures.
+2PsA
+/Prestige
+2SA
+4Rank Points
20
Valor under fire got you notices by the brass.
+/ Presnge
+2PSA
+20
+ Rank Poinrs

--- PAGE 45 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
EXPERIENCE CHARTZATOG
Roll
Result
Alien-loving scum overmun your position. Makea 3Dio Saving roll against Luck.If you miss, renienber your roll and go to
Note 1,at the top of page 55. If you make the Luck Roll, +7 Rank Points: if you fail, +2 Rank Points.
+2PSk
+2S
+2 Prestiee
+lPanribde
+7+2 Ran Poi
Heavy fighring devastates your unit. Makea zDio Saving roll against Luck,If you miss,remember your roll lind go to Note
3, at the top of page 55.If you make the Luck Roll, +6 Rank Points, if you failt +1 Rank Point.
+2Psk
2SSA
+2 Presige
+/Patrribute
+ov+Rank Potns
For a certain amount of timc you were listed as Missing In Action Make a IDio Saving roll against Luck. If you miss.
remnember your roll and go to Nole 1,at the top.of puge S5.
+2SSA
+IPresnige
+I Saribue
+3 Rant Points
By hard work you scored a particularly spectacular coup on your rival.
+2Ps
+I Prasige
+Paibe
+S Rant Poins
Rolt on Experience Chart 3A (TOG)
Heroic action duning the year brought you to the attention of your superiors.
+/Psh
+/Sstls
+Saribue
+zRant Point
This was definitely a strange year that did not go at all as you expected, A fellow fighter wrongly accused you of sabotage
and it took aimost a year to clear your name.
+/SSA
+/Partibute
+3.Rant Points
While not very exciting,this tour of duty did put you through yout paces.
+IPSAT
+7Patribute
4 Rart Poins
10
You found this a boring tour of dutyif not for make-work, you'd have had nothing to do all year.
+iSaribute
+3 Rank Points
11
Roll on Bxperience Churt3C (all forces)
12
Yeirs llke this make you think you've miade a senious vocational crror.
+/SS
+/Sambure
+3 Rak Pots
13
War-is hell but this tour wouldn't even. qualify as heck.
+/Pantribute
t3 Rank Poins
14
A sernies of transfers and bureaucratic screw-ups characterize this tourof duty for you
+rPattrtbure
+4 Rank Ponts
You participate in a rather dangerous mission, but escape unscathed.
+APS
+7Sattribute
+5 Rant Points
16
Roll on Experience Chart3A (TOG)
17
Intense fighting leaves you with no scars, but plenty of expenience
+2P
+Presige
IPatribide
to Rank Ponts
18
Unexpected stiff resistanee by the enemy makes you work hard for the victories you manage during the year. Make a iDio
Saving roll against Luck. If you'miss, remember your roll and go to Note 1,at the top of page 55, If you make the Luck roll.
+6 Rank Points:if you fail the roll, l Rank Point.
+1 Preshee
FSaribe
Fo+J Rak Porr
19
A surpise cnemy offensive strikes at your home base,forcing you to defend as best you cin Make a2Dio Saving roll against
IQ.If you miss, remember your roll ind go to Note 3,at thetop of page 55.
+25
+2 Presngr
+IPanbule
S Rank Points
20
Scum-sucking,nlien-loving traitors to humanily hand your unit a defeat and fonce a full retreat Make a 3Dlo Saving roll
against IQ.tf you miss,remember your roll and go to Note I,atthe top ofpage 54.If you make the TQ roll, +6 Rank Points:
if you fail the roll4 Rank Points.
+2PAN
+2Ssk
+2 Presnge
+/Partnbute
to+4 RankPoints

--- PAGE 46 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGOOGGGGGGGGGO
EXPERIENCECHART2B(COMMONWEALTHAND RENEGADELEGIONS)
Roll
Result
Xenophobic scum ovemun your position, Make a 3Dio Saving roll against Luck.If you miss, remcmber your roll and go
to Note 1.at the top of page 55, If you mnke the Luck Roll, +9 Runk Points: if you fail the roll, +2 Rank Points.
+2P
+2Ss
+2 Presrige
+Pamroe
+9/+2 Rank Poars
Heavy fightingdevastates yourunit Makea 2Dio Saving roll against Luck.If you miss,rememberyour roll and go toNote
3,atthe:topof.page55.
42 Prestige
+/Paltribute
+2PSAN
+2Ss
+ Rank Points
Flerce battling in vicious freak stormsforces you to survive by your wits when you getcutoff from yourforces.Make a IDio
Saving roll against Luck.If you miss, renember your roll and go to Note I, at the top of page Ss
+/Prestige
+2S
+JSanribute
+SRankPoinr
Heroic action on your part saves a small convoy of refugees fleeing the encmy.
+2P
+1 Prestee
+/Patbe
+8 RGAk PORS
Roll on Experience Chart 3B (Commoniwealth and Renegade Legions).
You are given special training for a secnet mission.
+Satbute
+SRankPoan
The year's chnotic progress promised action and adventure, but never seemed to deliver.
+/Pamribute
+3 Rank Ponts
The continual drills durine this tourkeep yourskills sharp
+/Partnbate
+3RartkPoints
10
A solnr cclipse sums up the excitement in this tour of duty
+/Sarbure
+ASSA
+3Rank Poins
Roll on Experience Chart3 (all forces).
12
Fighting to keep your rations down is the most battling do you in this tour.
+/Sambure
+3RankParns
If practice makes perfect, you figure you'ne about as close as you're ever going to get.
+IPanbule
+3 Rank Pos
Freguent shufming of forces never lets you senle Into any place for more than 2 moniths, disrupting your training schedule
utterly.
+hPanbue
+3 Rank Points
15
You succeeded in eluding an enemy force out hunting for you whcn you got trapped behind the lines.
/Sattribate
+/Psti
to Rank Points
16
Roll on Expenience Chart 3B (Commonwealthand Rericgade Legions).
17
You pulled oft a risky maneuverthat snatched the brass 's fat out of the fire.
+/Prestige
+Partnbue
+9RankPaints
18
Swift enemy advances put your unit underextreme pressune.Make a IDlo Saving roll against Luck,If you miss,remember
your roll and goto Note .at thelop of page S5.If you make the Luck roll,+7 Rank Points, if youfail the roll,+2 Rank Points.
+1Prestige
+ISanribute
9S2+
+7+2Ran.PORS
61
A brutal ToG offensive crushes your unit. You spend a considerable amnountof time running from Lictor before you manage
your escupe, Make  2D1o Saving roll against IQ. If you miss, remember your.roll and go to Note 3, at the top of page S5.
+Patribue
+2Prestige
+2SSAS
+2PA
45 Rart Points
20
Though captured by TOG forces, you put together a massive jailbreak that gcts you out of their hands and back to friendlier
forces. Make a 3Dio Saving roll against Luck.If you.miss, remember your roll and go to Note L, at the top of page S5.
+2 Preshige
+2PSA
+10stin
+tPatnbute
+25sks
+zRank Poins

--- PAGE 47 [OCR] ---
GOGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
GGGGGGGOUOGOGOGGG
EXPERIENCECHART3A(TOG)
Roll
Result
The mcdia crews recording a banle happened to catch your crucial maneuver that snatched victory from the jaws of defear it was
broadcasteverywhere, Make a SDio Saving roll against IQ.If you miss, rcihember your roll and go to Note I,at the top of page S5.
420
+5 Presige
+3Sattrtbte
+2PA
to RankPaab
Your unit stuns the cncmy with a savage assaull nd you are cited for particularly valorous action. Make a 4Dio Savinge roll against
IQ.If you miss,remember your roll and go to Note 2,al the top of page S5.
+2Sarriue
+25A
+5 Rant Point
Repealed acts of heroism in a bitterly contested campaign eam the recognition and respect of the others in your unit Make a 3Di0
Saving roll against lQ. If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note I, at the top.of pagc Ss.
+20arhribute
43.Presnee
+2P
+Z Rank Ponts
Your culm strength anid intelligence uinder fire makcs you'somcone your.whole unit looks to for suppont when trouble is brewing.
Make a 2D10 Saving roll against TQ.Tf you miss, remember your roll and go to Note 2. at the top of page 55.
+2Ponribue
3 Presige
+2.0(2)
+2Sskl
to Rank Points
You successfully rally your flecing comades into a counter-aitack that catches the enemy by surprise and takes the pressture off the
brass's HQ unit. Make a IDo Saving roll against IQ.If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note 1, atr the top of page S5.
+2 Prestige
+2Panrbate
+/Ssil
+2PSAM
+9 Rank Poins
Given what should have been a suicide mission, you atain your objective and return to tell about il.
+2 Prestige
+2 Sattbute
+2S
to Rant Point
Your quick wit and lcadership manage to keep your unit from taking an undue amount of casualties.
+2 Presnige
+2Panbure
+4 Rank Points
Despite being outgunned by a KessRith contingent of encmy.troops, you and your people fight savagely and drive the enemy from
the bautlefeld.
+J Presrige
+k0abue
+5 RankPoinr
10
In a series offeints and risky maneuvers,you and your unit manageto outwit the enemy and drive them off without so much as firing
ashot!
+1 Preshige
+ISantribule
+ISSA
+S Rank Poins
You claim if another politician tries to tell you what to do in the middle of a banle.you i shoot him, too!
+2Presge
+/Pattrbae
+IPSA
+2Rank Poimts
12
The disinformation campaign you create leads the enemy to attack an abandoned firebase that you' ve sown with booby traps.
+/ Prestige
+ISaibre
+/SSA
+S Rant Pons
13
You and your unit gain a reputation for being the folks whoCan Do"when it comes to those dificult assignments,
+0arrtbate
+/02)
+/Prestige
S Rank Points
14
In scouting out a situation you recognize and cause to be caploited a major weakness in the eneny force.
+2Panbute
+ISSA
+/Presnige
+IPA
toRank Poins
In a daring and reckless operation, you and a bunch of discipline-problem troopers wreck havoc behind encmy lincs, forcing 
slowdown intheenemy counter-oftensive
+2Sarribue
SE+
to Rant Pons
16
Your reputation for having a 6th sense about ambushes brings you to the altention of muny. Moke a IDio Saving roll against TQ. If
you miss. remember your roll and go to Note I, at the top of pagc 55.
+2 Presrige
+2Paliribue
+2 Rank Points
+2S5k
+2P
A KessRith commanderchallenges you to singlecombat,and you showhim that TOGtroops will not wilt from any conflict His clan
is impressed when you scnd his.corpse back.Makea 2Dio Saving roll against lQ.If youmiss,remember your roll and go to Note
2, at the top of pige 55.
+/0skill (x2)-+3Prestige
+2Panribuae
+25s
+5 Rant Points
18
In a series of coven moves, you succeed in locating, exposing and eliminating a major Renegade base. Makc a 3Dio Saving roll
against Q.If you miss,remember your roll and go to Note L,at the lop of page Ss.
+3.Prestige
+20attribue
+2S
+2Psk
+g RankPoims
Despite being uinbushed, you lead your people in a cold and bnutal counter-attack that breaks the enemy. Make a 4Dio Saving roll
against lQ.If you miss,remember your roll and go to Note 2,at the top of page 55.
+2Saribute
+25
+20A2
+SRarkPorts
20
Surviving un assassination attempt and refusing to be cvactaled while your people still fooght has clevated you in your men 's eyes
to the status ofa legend. Make a SDio Saving roll against IQ. If you miss, remember your roll and goto Note  ar the top of page
55.
+5 Prenige
+20kl/
3Paribute
+2 S sk
+2Pskm
+Z Rant Points

--- PAGE 48 [OCR] ---
GGGGGOOOGGOOGGGOOL
AGGGGGOGGGGGGGGGGG
EXPERIENCECHART3B(COMMONWEALTHAND RENEGADELEGIONS)
Roll
Result
Despire your superiors telling you thar the rescue of a Renegade Lindereround eroup was impossible. you and a cadre of volunteers went
AWOt and did the impossible.Bringing telejoumalists along to record things wasn'ta bad idca either.Make a SDio Saving roll against
IQ.If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note I,at the top.of page Ss
+2SA
+s Premge
+20
+o Rant Pan
Relentlessly pursuing Lictor who hive tortured and killed innocent people,you manage to track down their leader and miake him pay Tor
his crimes against all living creatures,Make a 4Dio Saving roll against IQ If you miss, remember your roll and go to Noie 2, at the top
of puge55
+4 Presiige
+2052)
+zsaribe
+2S
o Rank Pont
Facing fierce and entrenched enemv lorces, you and your conrades drove forward and broke the eneiny line. Make a 3Dlo Saving roli
against IQ.If you miss,remember your roll and go to Note 1, ar the top of page5.
+20afribre
+2SA
+10m
+3.Preshiee
+2-PG
t& Rark Pornts
The ambush youarrangednot only suvaged the enemy supply convoy, but it divcrted somc oftheir line troops from opposing youroffensive.
Make  2Dto Saving roll against IQ.If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note2.at the top of page S5.
+2SSA7
+20shillf2+3Presnge
+2Paribue
+9 RantPotnts
The enemy was badly mistaken when they chose to bypass your position to go after "more worthy foes."You made them regret their
arrogance,Make a IDio Saving roll against IQ.If you miss,rememher your roll and go to Note ,at the top of pagc 55
+2 Prestige
+2Panribute
+2Psll
+5Ramk Pons
In a leading edge unit,you slash through the enemy front lines and spread discord behind them.
+2 Presige
+2Satribe
+2SSAM
+4RankPoins
Nasty infighting and close assaults force you to be at your best tn battling TOG scun.
+/Preshige
+2Parrtbue
d Rank Potnts
As pant of a planctary assaull.you further refine the skills of a wanior.
+I Prestige
Many might htve considered it foolish, but to you, taking a truick to shop for fresh food in a town behind enemy lines was a necessity
IPreige
+ISAM
+ISaribae
+3ROnkPoinr
You wisely refuse to coniment on the rumor that while you wcre lrsted as A WoL you had actually slipped into the TOG-held city and spent
aweekcnd with.the muyor's conson
+/Pattribue
+ Presige
+3 Rark Points
Your ability to scrounge all sorts of supplies in the middle of nowherc has carned you a reputntion as a miracle-worker.
+/SSA
+/Presige
+/Satribute
+o.Rant Poms
13
The fact that you fulfilled your vow to avenge the youngest trooper in your unit has not been lost upon your comrades.
+/atribue
+/PSAM
FzRankPons
14
Even though the counterstnke took your superiors by surprise, you held your unit together long enough to throw the invaders back.
+1Presnge
2Paribe
ts Rank Poim
15
Ignoring personal danger,you suceessfully penetrated the eneniy stronghold's defensive system and ws able todirect vour forces in their
assault on your own position.
+2Prestige
+0(2)
+2Sartribue
+2S3A
+9RankPoints
16
The enemy analysts saw your unit as the wcakest link in the assaulforce You proved them wrong, Make a IDio Saving roll against IQ.
If you miss, renember your roll and go to Note I at the top of page S5.
+2 Presige
+2Ss
+/ol
+2Pathute
+2Pski
t5 Rank Porns
17
Despite loss of contact with the brass,you hung with the assault plan and actually attained your objectives ahead of schedule. Make a 2Dio
Saving roll against IQ.If you miss,remnember your roll and go to Note 2,at the top.of page S5.
+10sklr2+3Prestige
+2Partbe
+2SSA
+8 Rank Points
18
You're not sure who was more surprised, you or the ToG unit you discovered during what was supposed to be a soft recon. The baitle is
now legendary.Make a 3Dio Saving roll against IQ.If you miss,remember your roll and go to Note L at the top of page 55.
+3 Prestise
+2P
+20arbure
+2SSA
+8 RakPoints
19
Desplle the savagery of the baltlefield and a personal vendetta with your TOG counicrpan, you let him live and escape when you had him
at your imerey.While some have called that move foolish.most see it as incredibly brave and gallant.Make a 4Dto Saving roll against lQ
If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note 2,at the top of page S5
2Saibate
￥205/21
+2S3AM
+2Rank Points
20
When your ccmmanders leaned of the hardened comimand post thnt hund access to TOG orbital weapons, they knew their assault would
fail if those weapons could be used.Destroying the commdnd post was worscthan a suicide mission,bul you succeeded and havethe scars
to show for it Make a SDio Saving roll against lQ.If you miss remember your rolland go to Note l.ar thetop of page Ss.
+2 Pskil
+25skl
+5Prestige
+9Rdnk Poat

--- PAGE 49 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGOGG
EXPERIENCECHART3C(ALLFORCES)
Roll
Result
Tweaking the nose of the enemy leadership wasn'tenough for you. You also decided to ignore the wamings that they'd put a contract out
on your life. Make n SDlo Saving roll against IQ. If you miss,remember your roll and go to Nole 1,at the top.of page SS.
+2P
+2Sskt
+20m
+3.Presrige
+3Sarribute
+SRanEPoRS
Working in enemy-held temitory. you successfully pulled off the rescue of a very important figure, despite the danger to yourself. Make
n 4Dio Saving roll agninst IQ.Jf you miss, remember your roll ad go to Note 2, at the top of page 55.
+20(2)
+2Sskm
t3 Prerige
+2Sanribue
to Rank Poins
Artfully eluding enemy ngents,you mamnged to ncgotinte a "free passage for your unit with the local inhabitants, to thc discomfiture of
the enemy.Make a 3Dio Saving roll against IQ.If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note I,at the top of page 55.
+2Pk
+2SSAI
+2 Prestige
+20abbe
+o Rant Ponts
Realizing the only other option was capture you cngineered a breakout from a dangerous situation that saved you and several others from
your command. Make a 2Dio Saving roll against lQ.Ir you miss, remeinber your roll and go to Note 2,at the top of page 55.
￥2Sst
+/0(2)
+2 Presuige
2Paribue
+7Ramk Points
Despite orders to the contrary, you nemained fighting in a rear-guard action that bought enough time for your unit to retreat in good arder.
Make a IDlo Saving roll against IQ. If you miss, remember your roll and go to Noie 1,tt the top of page SS.
+2Pskll
+2 Presnige
+2Parribute
+8 RankPoins
Using all resources available, you brought your devastated unit back together and managed to escape the hunter tcams pursuing you.
+2S3AL
+/05(2)
+/Prestige
+2Saribute
+6 Rank Points
Faced with overwhelming odds against your sunvival, you embarked on a dangerous trek to link up with the remnindcr of your forces.
+2Partbute
+7 Rank Pos
Your devotion to seif-discipline allow you to makc something of yourself this year, unlike the other wastrels in your unit.
+705(2)
+70amnbute
+3 Rark Potnts
10
If you ever saw duty on a geostable planet, you know you could get some real work done.
+/0(2)
+Sanribde
+3Rank Ponts
You still maintain you didn't know who that noble was when you decked him for cheating at cards.
+1os(2)
FIPS
+/ Prestige
+Patribute
+3 Rah Points
12
Working with, for and aghinst the bureaucracy has been an education in itself.
+02
+ISSA
ISatrbe
+3 Rark Points
13
If hard work builds character, you figure you've got enough to fill out any 17 characters on popular entertainment shows.
+APSA
+ioartribute:
+3 Rant Points
14
Grim battling through the year leaves you drained, but much wiser in the ways of war.
+APSA
+/Ssk
+2Panbute
+5 Rank Points
To buy your people time, you stage a nasty ambush that catches an enemy convoy sleeping and throws the pursuit into total disarray.
+/0/(2)
+2SSA
+Presrige
+2Satrtbue
+8 Rank Points
16
Pushing yourself to the limits of endurance and beyond, you led the raguag rennant of your unit to where they could be evacuated from
the planet Make a Dio Saving roll against IQ. If you miss, remember your roll and go lo Note I, at the top of page 55.
+2PSA7I
+2 Prestige
+2Pattrtbate
to Rank Poins
17
Defying the forces anayed against you,sonehow you manage to assassinale the enemy commander who has hounded the remains of your
uinit to death.Make a 2DiO Saving roll against IQ. If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note 2, at the top of page S5.
+10//（2)
+2SSM
+2 Preshige
+2Patribute
+9 Rank Points
18
In a daring and desperate raid on an enemy facility.you libcrate the.vehicles needed to make good your escape of the planct, Make a 3Dio
Saving roll agninst lQ.If you miss, renember your roll and go to Note I, at the top of page Ss.
+2PsAl
+25s
+2 Presnige
+20artribue
toRankPonA
19
Left alone afier the enemy crushed your unit, you camicd out a guerrilla campaign that had your foes put a ioo.ooo Talent bounty cn your
head Mike a 4Dio Saving roll against IQ.If you miss, remember your roll and go to Note 2, at the top of page S5.
+20A//(2)
43Presthige
+2Sarribute
t9 Rant Points
20
Whoever said the prison camp they stuck you in was escape-proof was wrong.and you took great delight in pointing this out with a
demonstration.Make a SDio Saving roll against IQ.If you miss, remcmber your roll and goto Note I,at the top of pagc S5.
+2Psk
+2SSA
+20
+3 Presige
+3Patnbate
+ RankPons

--- PAGE 50 [OCR] ---
GGGG
GGG
PREVIOUSINJURIES
You should have been direcied to one of the three following notes
LIMITEDATTRIBUTES
fromntheexperiencecharts:
Each body area ts linked to one or more attribules, as shown on the
Note L, You've just misscd a saving roll Subtract your attribute from the
following chart, These are the altributes that might be permanently
roll (Roll-Attnibule  Margin) and divide the result by 3 (Margin3)
reduced:
Round tothe nearestwholenumbcr.If that resultisover 3,reduce ftto3
that is your Wound Intensity number. See Wound Intensity.
Area
Linked Atiributes
Head
IQand CH
Note z,You ve just missed a suving roll Subuact your altribute from the
Upper lorso
CNand ST
roll (Roll= Attribute - Marein) and divide the nesult by 4 (Murgin/4)
Lower torso
CNand SP(L)
Rouind to the neanest whole number(.S rounds up).If chat result is over 3.
Upper limbs
DX andST
reduce it to 3 that is your Wound Intensity number.See Wound
Lower limbs*
SP(L)and AG*
Intensity.
(L) refers to land spced, as opposed to Reaction Speed.
Note 3, You ve just missoda saving roll Subtractyour altnbule from the
s There is a possibility of a tail hit if the churacter is a Menelvagorean or
roll (Roll-Attnbute-Marginy and divide the result by 5 (Margin/S)
Ssorn (sce below).
Roundtotheriearestwholenumber.Tfthnlrcsultis over3reduceitto3
that is your Wound Intensity number. See Wound Inlensity.
WOUND INTENSITY
Your Wound Inlensity mumber measures the severity of the damaee
your character has received, The numbers trinslate roughly as follows:
Light wound. A scratch.
Moderale wound, Enough blood and pain to cause con-
cem, but should leave linle more than a scar.
Serlous wound,Medical help Is nceded for a reascnably
rapid recovery.Bionic and bud grafing can be used for
cosnctc rcasons.
Near Deaih.Ripid mcdical assistancc is required to save
the character's life.Replacementofdumaged areas by Bi-
onics and/or Bud grafting techniques are mandatory to
restore funchons.
HITLOCATION
Next, roll 2Dio on the following chant to detennine what specific
arei has beenwounded:
Roll
Location
Head
34
Upper right limb(sy
5-8
Upper torso
9-10
Lower right limb(s)
Upper left limb(s)
12-13
Lower lef limb s)
14-17
LoWCT torSo
18-19
Upper right limb(s)
Head
Notethis is also a location table for arca cffect damages

--- PAGE 51 [OCR] ---
OSGOGGL
EFFECTOFTHE INIURY
ALIENHITLOCATIONS
Once you have detemmined the Wound Intensity and its Hit Location.
The Hir Location Chart above assumes that the charactcr is either
roll2Di0on thenextcharTheactualmeaning foralleffects on the linked
Human or Naram.Ifthecharacterisofnothcrspccies,thefollowingrules
atnibutes is eaplained below.f two atiributes are hinked to an area,both
should be applied for the various body areas and linked nitributes.
suffer the same reduction. Ifan atributeis reduced to a point where a skill
can not be used then the character can only use that skill as per
Head and Upper Torso Hits.A Vauvusar's bruin is actually in his chest.
Ungunlified Skill Use if the attribute is subsequently restored to.a suf.
Ifa head hit is rolled againsta Vauvusar assumethat he was hit in or near
ficiently high level, then the character can use that skill without penalry
hisbrain,thus affecting IQand CH.Ifan upper torso hit isrolled,assume
again, No attibutc can be reduced below I.
that the hitarnived away from his brain (inhistorsoor head),thus affecting
his CN and ST. (Which Is all to say.No,a Vauvusar'brain isn't in his
Roll
Wound Intensily
head, but don t change the results of the table hecausc ofit.y
Lower Torso Hlits.All lower torso hitsare treated in the sane manner for
all species.
Upper Limb Hits, All crealures with more than one pair of upper limbs
CVauvusar and Baufhin) mustrandondy choose which of iheupper limbs
got hit An even roll means the more graceful limbs got hit and only Dx
iseffected,butat twicethenormal damagc.An oddrollmeansthestronger
limhs got hit and only ST only is effect but again ar twicethe nomal
damage..
Lower Limh Hits. This category includes the motile limbs of all
creatures and, cn  3 or less iDlo).means that the tail was hit for
Menclvagorean and Ssoran characters, Ifthe tail Is hit,ignore referencey
12
to Sp Lyand substitute AG InsteadKessRith and Baufhin may divide
damage to SP (L)by 2 and 3 respectively (round fractional losses up to
nearest whole tumbery becuuse they have more than one pair of legs.
20
The wound heals nomally without penmanent effect.
B.The wound heals bul with short ienm after-effects.Roll IDio This
is the number of months of decreased capacity this wound causes.
Subtraci the Wound Iniensity from the linked altributes for the specified
period oftine (which ends before the game begins).No pemanent effect
C.The injury causes a permaneat bur limited loss of function. Make a
2DioSaving roll againstLack.A successful roll mcans thatcybermetic or
regrowth techniques haverestored full function, If the roll failed perma-
nently subunct the Wound Intensity from the linked attributes.
D, Function senously impaired Makea 3DioSaving rollagainst Luck.
A successful roll means hat cybemetic or regrowth techniques have
restored full function, Tf the roll falled,permanenuly subtract douhte the
Wound Intensity from the linked atributes,
E. Function seriously impalred, with other damage apparent Make a
4Dio Saving roll against Luck.Asuccessful rollmeans thatcybcmetic or
regrowth techniques have restored full function. If the roll failed, perma-
nenlly subtractthree tinesthe Wound Tntensity from thelinked aitnibules
If Charisma is not a linked attribute, also subtct the Wound Intensity
Level from the character s CH

--- PAGE 52 [OCR] ---
EQUIPMENT
This chapter describes some of the eguipment found in the Renegade
ARMOR
Legion universc, It Is Tar from ccmprehensive, and the Gamemasler
should feel free to add any item hic doesn't find here.
The average legionnaire is better protected than his fellow soldiers
Equipment availabitity is determined adventuire to adventure. Usu-
at any othertimc in history,Unfortunately he deeds it,and more,given the
allycharactcrsaretakingpan in somesortofmilitaryoperations,inwhich
power.of modern weaponry.
case most of the weapons nd equipmcnt are readily available Some
Anmorisraled intennsofitsAmorFactorCAy.AmorFactorsare
cquipment is rire howeverlike the Ranger suits used by the 2nd ACR.
nevercumulative,evcn with natural amor.See Comnbat fora funtherdes.
and characiers will have to use Prestige to get it, if it is even available.
cription of how armor affects damage.
Availability of equipment for issue and check out is left to the GM.
Normally a suit is composed of several types of amor, wich more
Note that some equipment has a rating assigned to it If such
vulnerable areas more heavily ammored For example,  TOo light
equipment is being uscd to aid a character in a skill check or saving roll.
infantry suit has Lorica (AF 3)on its lowertorso, arms and legs, Lamina
this rating should be added to the character's total.
(AF4)on its uppertorso and Ferox (AF 6) on its head.There ure five
possible.amor locations, head, upper torso, lower torso, ams (upper
POWER
limbs)and legs (lowerlimbs and taily.Chehead is usually protectedwith
a helmcl, but the helmet can be inteeral to a suit) The following list
describes the five persoal armor types, each of which has a different
Almost all armored combat suits have a built-in power supply for
TOo and Commonwealth name.
powenng weapon systems and other cquipncol All firearns,with the
cxception of ancient weapons,reguire power.All can draw power from
BOMBYX(TOG/BAL-CLOTH(CW)AF2)
acombatsuit'ssupplyorfrom somcotherextemnlsourcerafewalsohave
Cost lo0 per area protected.
intemal reserves. Power is rated in tems of Power Points, Ench amored
Thisistwo-layerballisticclotharmordesignedfortesistanceto lascr
suit has acertain number of Power Points tharit can store ata given time.
Power can be had from a numberof sources,Auxiliary power packs
and light penetraling attacks, Energy is dispersed through the malerial.
ruther than allowed to peoetrate.This materinl is very light-weight and can
are available to power weapons Chese are descnibed in the Miscellane
easily be wom under a unifom.
ous Equipment.section of this chapler.)
Furthermore, all military vehicles are equipped with a number of
LORICA TOG/SHOCKSHEET(CWAF3)
ports that allow Infantry to "wire up"alongside the vehicle. The power
Cost: ISO per area protected.
cord isan elastic material,8mcters in leneth Itis notan uncommon sight
This material is somcwhat heavier than Bombyx or Bal-Cloth, and
to see a sguad ofinfantry marching alongside a vehicle, hooked via power
is betierindispersing energy-based attacks.Withatighier weave,itis also
cords, tapping power-from the fusion reactor on board.
While hooked to a vehicles by a cord, any combat suit without full
more resistant to penetration attacks,Like the lighteramor,this material
can be wom under clothing.
powerrecharges regains poweratarateof 6o Power Points perminutetio
per roundythatthe characterishookedup.Whilehookedup,the suitdraws
LAMINA(TOG/LOPLATE(CW(AF4)
any weaponry power directly frorn the vehicle,but it does not continue to
Cost: 200 per area protecled.
charge during any round in which a weapon is fired If the vehicle pulls
This amor consists of semi-nigid plates of carbon-core material
away sharply, the power cord wil aulomatically disconnect and the
These small plates are usually bound with Bal-Cloth threading It is
combat suit will return to its intemal supply
possible to hide a vest of Lamina or LoPlate under a jacket, but they are
Characters can also recharge from commercial power outlets whcre
quite obvious when protecting the ams or lcgs.
clectricity is available, Commercial outlets recharge ata rale of 12 Power
Points per minute (2 per round).
FEROX CTOG/SHOCKPLATE(CW(AF6)
Shipboards provide a number of power sources.Ship control moni-
Cost 300 per area protected.
tors all have powertaps, as doall air locks.Several power taps are always
This armor is the lighterof thetwo heavy infantry armors, It concists
installed on the outside of vesscls, as well All of these recharge nt a rate
of much larger plates than those in Lamina or LoPlale, magnetically
of 6o Power Points per minute (lo per roundy.
linked, and are very duruble.
Players are responsible for keeping track of their power levels at all
times,As power is expended, (such as a helmet or ZGME), the plnver
VERTEXCTOG/H-PLATE(CWCAF12)
reduces the Power Points available on the record sheet, Once all points are
Cost: 6oo pernrea prolected.
gone,the thcequipment cannor bcoperated withouthooking upto another
This is the heaviest of the infuntry armors. It consists of.heavy
power source.
carbon-core plating, with a weaveofenergy-dispersing matenal connect-
ing the plates.By far, this is the most desired pensonal protection on the
battlefield.

--- PAGE 53 [OCR] ---
AOOGGGGGGG
GGGGGGG
GGGGG
COMBATHELMETS
ARMOREDSUITS
The following suits of anor arestandard issue inthe military.unless
LIGHTHELMET
otherwise noted. These suits may vary somewhat between the govem-
Cost:600
ments, but for the most part are quite similar on both sides of the present
AF:6
connidt.
Power use,1 per hour
The use of these anmored suits is not lirniled to Humnans anid Naran.
Target delection rating 2
All of the alien raices have some variation of each armored suit in usc.
However,a Baufrin or KessRith suit of ariy type costs S0% more than the
HEAVYHELMET
Iisted price.
Cost: 1200
All ammored suits are watertieht Also,cach combat suitis equipped
AF:12
with a BasicLifefom Sensor (BL S).These devices consume little power
Poweruse: I per hour
butcan communicatewith acommanding officer's helmettodisplayifits
Target detection rating: 2 (see below)
wearer is dead nlive,or somcplace in between.
In general terms, it take S minutes to put on or take off any of these
Each helmel wom in the Rencgade Leeion universe has scveral
suits,howeverthattime can be cutto2miinutes by a successful 2Di0roll
standard fentunes:
against Agility
-A flash-suppressing visor with a full display inside. Evea the flash
All anmored suits are trcated with a pemanent chcinical compound
from a nuclear warhead is shielded frorn thc wearer.
of Bucktesiumn ml. This substance,when modified with a Camo-Tinter.
-A sensor that can display terrain in thcmographic or motion
provides a wide spectrum of colors and camouflage. A treaied suit can be
detection mode, negating the cffects of darkness or other limited visibil-
easily inodified for winter, forest, desert or even urban covironments.:
ity.
All armored combat suits are equipped with "Go to Ground Mode,"
-A targeting display for a personal firearm or vehicle weaponry.
or.GTGM.At a verbal command,the suit shuts off all medium and high
which can also function as the display for an Expert sysic, Many
powcr energy emissions, allowing the trooper to greatly reduce his
weapons. require that thcy be connccted to a combat helimet in order to
visibility to cnergy sensor sweeps, CEcM skill detection rolls by the
function most effectively,lf such a weapon is not hooked into a helmet.
opposing forcemust be mode withone additional dic.) This system,when
subiract2 from the Fircr'sTotal.
engaged, doesn't allow the wearer to fire a weapon or to use any other
Nuclear/Biochemical warming scnsors thnt can seal theheimet(and
helmet features,(Of course,a weapon can siil be fired at-2 without the
suit, if attached) air-tighi for several minutes if such a threat presents
helniet's aid, but the soldier will probably expose himself when he does
itself.
so) lthas enabledentire squads to conceal themselves from the cncmy in
-A personal communication device with a ringe of 2o kilometers.
combat.
-Breathing flters.
In addition,borh heavy and light helmets womn by squad leaders are
LIGHT INFANTRYSUITGARRISON ISSUE)
cquipped with a device that can detect friendly Basic Lifefom Sensors
(BLS's) within 300 meters. Other field commanders (usually optios or
Co5t.3500
AF by location:
higher) have BLS's with a range ofover 4kilometers.
Ams:3
Upper torso: 4
OTHERHELMETS
Lower torso:3
Currently there are a number of small, lightweight helmets used by
Head: 6
suppon personnel in both the Commonwealih and TOG.
Legs: 3
These are typically rated at AF 4, cost about 250,and provide only
Powerrescrve1o0
slight protection for the ears and face.
This suit is wom by light infantry units or those assigncd to gamison
duty on relntively safe worlds It provides ainple hcad and torso protec-
tion, as well as light amored protection on the ans and legs.

--- PAGE 54 [OCR] ---
BOUNGEINFANTRYSUII
TANKER COMBATSUIT
Cost:5200
Cost:3100
AF by location:
AF by location:
Ams 4
Ams:4
Upper torso: 12
Upper torsoc 12
Lowertorso:6
Lowertorso:6
Head: 12
Head:12
Legst4
Legs: 2
PowerreservesSoo
Power reserve S0
Bounce pack
This amored suit is commonly worn by Gav or ground tank crews.
This amored infantry suit is one of the most common currently
It provides strong head and torso prolection, while the legs are only
esued im both TOG and the Commonwealth.Iuses the heavyhelmet,as
minimally.amored.
well as very strong lorso protection, The torso armored plates are
This suit is specially coated with a fire resistant maternial to protect
imicrchangeable and ane can be replaced within 20 seconds (2 combat
tankers from their greatest fear, that of buming in their vehicles.
rounds).
RANGERSTEALTHSUIT
Cost:25.000
AF by location?
Ams2
Upper torsoc 6
Lower torso: 4
Head: 12
Legs: 2
PoweTTeservc:300
ECMUnit
Bounce Pack
Rnnger stealth suits are found in limited numbers, and onby in the
Commonwealth,alhough TOG has begun manufacturing an experimen-
Lal version of its own design.Of Nanmdesign oniginally,dhe Common-
wealth suit is difficult to find and is rarely issued as standard ecar for
opeanons.
These systems are equipped with an ECM unit (in the torso plates)
thuit acts as a jamming sysiem for sensor arrays. For gane purposes.
attempting to detect a character with a Ranger suit requires that a die be
added to the ECM Detection rolls mnde by the opposing force, and the
ECMunit's rating of 3 is a ncgative modifier to the target number.If the
suit is in GTe modeadd a second die lo the roll Cas detailed in the
Armored Siits introductionl.
MARINECOMBAT SUITCOMBATISSUE)
Cost:6200
AF by location:
Ams4
Uppertorso:12
Lowerlorso:6
Head 12
Legs: 4
PowerTeservc:7o0
Bounce pack
This suit is designed for use by Marines on garrison or standard
planet-bascd duty.ltuses the hcavycombat helmet.provides ample chest
protection and is lintle different from the standard bounce infantry suit
Howcver,thissuitcan storesignificantlymorepower,useful forthelascrs
common to Marine units.

--- PAGE 55 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
SPAOESUITS
INTERCEPTOR FLIGHTSUITSTANDARDISSUE
Cost: 8000
Spnce suits provide ample mdintion protection and usually carry
AF by location:
oxygcn for several hours ot work. These suits are also equipped with
Arns-2
ZGME (Zero-G MotiveEquipment)for movement in space,Life suppon
Upper torso:6
(basicallyan oxygen supply)requires/pointof powerforevery5 or 1o
Lower.torso.6
Head: 12
minutes ot usage,thts power requirement varying from suit to suit
All space suits are equipped with a layer of semi-liquid emcrgency
Legs: 2
sealant that automatically closes any small breach.If the damage taken by
Powerreserve:100
Life support 3o.minutes
a character in a space suin is lo points or less,the breech is sealable and
he takes nofuriherdamage.Tfthedamage is morethan lopoints after AP
Life.support powerose--1per Sminutes:
is applied), then that section of the suit is sealed off as per the decompres-
The flight suit is nof only an armored suit,but also a full space suit
Sion nules in Combat
for limited periods of time. It uses a heavy helmet modified with air
These rules apply to both standard and Marine space suits.
intakes from a portable tank built into the chest plate. if a cockpit is
breached and air pressure drops orthe onboard life suppcrt system fails,
STANDARDSPACESUT
the helmet's sensor initlates a full sealing and pressunization of the suit
Cos1:7500
within three seconds.
AF by location.
This suit also has thin but fully insulated glovcs that allow for
Ams:3
delicate finger movements in the cockpit.
Upper torsos: 3
Lower lorso:3
Hend:6
Legs: 3
Power reserve: Soo
Life support 2hours
Life suppor powerusc:1perminutes
ZGME
This.is the classic space work suit While not very bulky,it isn't
designed at all for combat It only lightly protects the wearer and is
intended forrepairorconstruction workin space.Powerconncctors on the
suit provide power to construction and crher eguipment as needed

--- PAGE 56 [OCR] ---
GGG
MARINEZERO-G SPACESUIT
NAVALFEETSJT
Cos1: 13.300
0062-1500
AF by location:
AF by location.
Ams:4
Ams:2
Uppertorso:12
Upper torsot3
Lowcrtrso:12
Lowertorso:2
Head:12
Head: 4
Legs:2
Power.reserve: 6o)
Powtr.neserve: So
Life support: 2 hours
Lifesupport30minutes
Life support power-usesIper lo.rminutes:
Life support powermse: 1 per 1Ominutes
ZGME
This light suit is used by naval fleet personnel on shipboard duty.It
Both TOG and the Commcnwealih make use of the Marine Corps
is a non-combal suit thni has the spme pressurization system found on
ability to- fiehr in a Zero-G vacuum environment This suit,with little
Flight Suits.
variation is common to both militaries.The Marine Zero-G space suit is
This suit's lighier helmer has a retractable visor.This helmet has a
heavily anored and provides fullatmosphcreandradiation protection for
short-range communicator for shipboard trinsmissions, but lacks any of
the wearer.
the other motion/thermographic tracking gear found in conbat helmets.
It docs, however, have a sensor thal can deiect a loss of pressure. When
this occurs, it seals the suit. giving its wcarer tine to put a heavier-duty
suit on overil

--- PAGE 57 [OCR] ---
GOGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
AGGGONGGGGGGGOGGG
SMALLARMSAND MELEE WEAPONRY
KNIFES
The availnbility of pensonal melee weapons and firearms, and the
DAGGER
laws goveming them, vary frorn worid to world While a dngger is not
Cost: 10
hard to find anywhere in occupied space,locating a laser stiletto might be
OfDefModierl
a more difficult proposition.
Damagc:1+SD
All of the weapons listed here have also been modified for use by
Range:10
othcr races.Cn fact,somc were initiallydesigned by alicn anisans.)Thus
there are, for example, Baufrin spike pistols, nigged and balanced for a
Daggers are very common weapons and can be anything from.a
Baufrn's grip. Assume that alen equivalents have the same statistics as
homcmadesharpenedpicceofmetaltoacompoundalloy.blade,perfectiy
those listad here,unless the oM decrecs olhcrwisc.
blanced
WEAPONSTATS
Cost. The cost for each weapon is listed in Talents.:
OftDef Modineror Offensive ModiferThese weapons can have
twomodifiers,offensive and defensive.Theoffensivemodifieradjustsa
character's DX when he is attacking with that weapon, The defensive
modifieradjustsachiracler's AG when he is defending with that weepon.
SAI
Ranged weapons have only an offensive modifier, melee weapons have
Cost30
both, This modifier can be positive, negative, or zero (-).
Of/Der Modifier.-2
Range or Rangei Short, Medluin, Long.Eachthrown weapon has
Damage:1+SD
only a short rangc, throughout which that weapon's offensive modifier
applies. All other ranged wcapons have three offensive rmodifiers listed.
Sai is a general ienn that descnbes a family of parrying daggers and
for short, mediuin and long ranges, This modifier is listed in parentheses
hookscommonly found inmanialans schools.Thescrathcrbluntdaggers
after.the maximum distance (in meters) for that range.For example, the
are mostly used for defensive blocking.
Marcus SMG has an offensive modifier of +l when its target is within 70
mclers,-lwbcn thetirgetisbeyond 7ometersbutwithin14ometers,and
LASERSTILETTO
-3 when it is beyond 140 meters but within 200meters (the maximum
Cost:300
effective range forthatweapon).
Of/DefModifier
Dainage, Damage lists the number of points of damage that the
Damage:6
weapon does agalnst an unamored target, modified by the hit location
Range: 10
(see Conbat). Damage for muscle-powered weapons is-described as
Power per use (reserve: 1(1o)
"+sD, meaning that the listed damage is added to the charicter's
Streneth Damage (SD,SD=ST/6,rounded down)
The laser stiletto is n small power pnck shaped like the haft of a
Darmage (vehicular), The heaviest wcapons can dsimage military
dagger.On top of this narrow pack is a Gennium-Arsenic crystal which
vehiculur armor. Tff so,the amount of vehicular dumagc possible is listed
focuses a short laserbeam for ainge of6 centimeters,The lssercan only
in parentheses after the weapon's nonmal damage.
be activaled for short bursts no longer than S seconds, This is done from
Ammunition (cost).Some.ranged weapons require ammunition.ff
a control stud built into the haft
so, the numnber of shots thnt the weapon can hold fusually.in a clip or
Thls stilecto consumes 1 power point each time it is dctivated The
polymer blocky is listed, along with the costof a full load ofammunition.
conirol stud can be depresscd twice quickly (double-clicked) so thatthe
Powrer per shot (reserve), Most weapons are powered. If so, the
laser beam remains on for a full five scconds. This allows it to stay on
power required per shot is listed, as is the miaximum power reserve that
when itis thrown.
heweaponcanhave,Ofcourse,any powered weaponcan be plugged into
it or to draw on the exicmal power diroctly while using the weapon.
BLADES
SHORTSWORD
Cost:70
Oft/DerModifier.4/2
Damage:4+SD
Short swords in the Tomis of cutlasses and machetes can be com
monly found even on primitive worids.The most modem. technology
provides a lightweight carbonfiber blade and shock resistant haft.

--- PAGE 58 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGOGGGG
LONGSWORD
TRIDENT
Cost: 150
Cost: 170
On/DefModifer:6/3
Oft/Def Modifier.2S
Damage:6+SD
Damage:4+SD
Range:10
This type of sword is most commonly found as an omamental or
dress carbonfiber saber, as such, they are standard issue for several
Wih the hie of TOG and New Rome,the trident has re-appeared as
thousund legiots.Whilesomethingofan archaic weapon,skill witha long
a wcapon, It Is cssentially a three-pronged pitchfork, with lightweight
swcrd is still honored and tauht in some militiry dcademies.
metallic tips. Ii can be thrown up to lo meters accuntely
CLUBS
SPEAR
Cost: 120
CLUB
Of/Def Modifier 62
Dnmage:6+SD
Cost:5
Range: 25
Off/Def Modifier.-1
Damage:2+SD
The best spears arecarbonfiberreinforced shafis with titanium stnke
heads.These weapons are very popular on frontier worids and with nntive
A club is the most basic of wcapons. One can be improvised from
hunters,.
almost anything,including chair legs, nifles, and bats.
CESTUS
Cost:50
JAVELIN
Oft/DerModinerl/o
Cost:80
Damage:2+SD
OftDrModincroro
Damige:4+SD
The cestus is a hand-held leatherstrapwhich wraps an amay of large
Range:35
metal studs across its user s knuckles. It is the New-Ronnn cguivplent of
brass knuckles and is very popular on TOG-occupied worids.
This spike-tipped carbonfiber shnft is n weapon with litde striking
STAVES
power but a longer range than other thrown weapons.
LASER PILUM
STUN STAFF
Cost:500
Cost:190
Off/Def Modifier7/2
Oft/DefModifier3A
Damage:10+SD
Damage:4+SD
Ruinge:20
Powerperuse (reserve). (1o)
Powerperminute (reserve):1 (10)
The stun staff is a short powered rod capable of producing an
The Laser pilumn Ls a long hnft reinforced with carbonfiber for
electrical shock on conlact.
strength The haft contains a sminll power pack, similar to that in a laser
slleto.
STAFF
The top of dhe pilum has a Genniun-Ansenic lasing crystol and a
Cost:35
focused series of optically corrected lenses, producing a laser energy
ODefModifier3/l
point that extends 2 centimeters from the tip of the weapon. The laser
Danage:2+SD
portion of the pilum is activaled by a control stud in the handle.Each time
it is pressed, che laser pllum produces a liser point thnt remains on for 2
"Stafr can inean any long,club-tike weapon, including a length of
minutes time.
lead pipe. The price listed above is for the carbonfiber yersion that
This weapon is comirnonly used by honor guards in TOG holdings.
elongates from 3o cm to 1.5 meters in length by.touching the proper
In the past century it has found increased popularity with races used lo
spnng-loaded stud.
javelins or spears in comnbat.An unpowered Laser pilun can beused as a
spear (when doing so, use the spear stats).

--- PAGE 59 [OCR] ---
AOGGOGGNGGGI
GGG
BOWS
CASELESSPISTOLS/SMGS
LONG BOW
These weapons use cascless rounds of ammuimiticn fed from a
Cost-10
verticallyor honizontallymouintedclip,Theyare heavy and cumbersonc.
Damage: 4+SD
and have limited range and practicality.Still, many ure in use on the moe
Range:
primitive worids on both sides of the war.
Short 50 ()
All caseless pistols and SMG's are capable of autonatic fire.
Medium:100 (-2)
Caseless weapcns are not'electrically powered Therefore, they
Long:150 (-3)
cannot use a painting laser and do not need to tie into complex targeting
Ammunition (costLl)
systems, In many circles this is.why they are so popular.
Also known as a reflex bow, it is normally found only in sporting
WESTRON12MMCASELESSPISTOL(CW/RL)
venies. A long bow can be constructed of anyihing fron Ssora nb bones
Cost .60
to spring steel.
Domage:4
Rangc:
Short: 30 t-)
SPECIALFORCES CROSSBOW
Medium: 60 (-2)
Cost:350
Damage: By bolt type
Long:120()
Ammunition (cost):12 (5)
Ranges
Short:S0(+1)
This weapon is manufactured by the Westron Amamcnt Works in
Medium: too (-)
Long:150 (-1)
the Comonwealth and is usedextensivclyby the Renegade Legions,For
Ammunition (cost):5 (by bolttype)
the past two centuries Wesiron has been the only fim still making this
class of pistol on a commercil basis. The Westron 12mm has gained
Special Forces crcssbows are imade of a high-sirength polymer with
populanily over the years as the classic sidcarm of the 2nd ACR, as well
specially filed micro-tension cordin-unit bow string.The bow acccpts
as many smallergarrison units.
a clipof S arrows which also contain a power pack sufTicient to drive the
automaticrecocking mecthunismStimes,This crossbow is equipped with
a thennographic scope and is virtually silent in operation.
Crossbow damage depends on the type of amow that is fired
NORMALBOLT
Cost 2: Damage 6. This is the pormal high-strength polymer shaf
with a titanitm hunting tip.
EXPLOSIVE ROLT
Cost 20, Damage 12. This bolt's shaft is a chemical compound of
hardened plastic explosive. The tip holds a micro-contact detonator.
MARCUSSMGTOG
ARSONICBOLT
Cost lo, Damage 6. This arrow has a tip loaded with two unstable
Cost110
chemical compoundsthat,when combined on impact,immcdiately cause
Danage:6
high temperature combustion.This arrow is commonly used for setting
Range:
fires at long ranges whene heavily powered weapons arc notuvailable or
Short:-70 (+1)
pructical The damage is the resuitofthefire,and continues for cach rouind
Medium:140(-1)
that the target is buning.
Long:200 (-3)
STUNBOLT
Ammunitiontcosty:30.c1o)
Cost 2o. Dumage 12.This arrow shaft is a disposable power pack.
The tip of the arrow is rieged to discharge the pack s energy in a single
The Marcus Class caseless SMGis the only mass-marketed caseless
stunning burst This dunage is only temporaryc it might knock its target
weapon fouind in TOG space Somewhat larger and bulkier than the
unconscious, but the turget recovers at I per minute, regardless.
Westron 12mm.,this gun has a longerrangeand more impactpower.Over
the years this SMG has managed to become popular with penal units and
other legions depnved of proper supplies.

--- PAGE 60 [OCR] ---
JGGOGGGGGGGOG
IGGGNGGGGGGGG
SPIKESLUG AND OMNIWEAPONRY
Spike weapons shave the block into a series of spikes und launch
them at bypervelocities. Slug weapons cut the blocks, into larger, solid
"'slugs" before launching them OMNi rifles can switch back and fonth
Each of these weapon types hus its individual distinctions, but first
between spike and slue modes.
the similarities among all these guns are listed:
Ballisticpolymcrblocks are very tightweightandcostonly5Talents
-They all use the sanc type of ammunition (descnbed below).
each.
-They all require power. Each has a power supply buili into its stock.
but this power neserve is only sufficient to fire a single block Weapons
OMNI CLASSRIFLES
that use a combined power pack/polymer block are available, but these
weapons (and blocks)re twice as.expensive.
-lf they are fired without being hooked into a combal helmet cor
GRANTOMNIRIFLE(CW)
targeting goggles, -2 is added to the atacker's Dx. However, the
Cost: 1700
targeting and thermographic cquipment normally found in a combat
Splke Setting
helmet can be built into them, increasing cost by S0%.
Damage: 12
They are all capable of automatic fire.
Range:
-They can all be equipped with a painting laser mounted under the
Shor:500 (+3)
barrel: if not plugged into un extermal source, it druws off of the main
Medium:1500 (-)
weapon's power supply. This laser cannot be used simultancously with
Long:2700 (-1]
theman weapon
Ammdnition (cost12-(5)
Power per shot (reserve):1 (36)
SPIKE WEAPONS
Slug Setting
Spike weapons, also known as ncedle weapons, re a senes of
Damagc(vehicular):24.(2)
pistols, carbines, and nifles designed for use as anti-personnel weapons.
Range:
They lack the slug wenpons ability to pcnetrate hcavy vehicular amnor.
Shor:700-b)
Medium:1800 (-2)
Each shot is actually a short stream of spikes, automatic fire is a more
Long:3200 (-3)
concentrated and prolonged.stream.
Ammunition (cost):12(5)
SLUG WEAPONS
Power per shot (reserve): 3 (36)
There are two key differences between slug projectors (or "slug-
The Grini rine was desiened after the defection of the Renegade
gers,as line troops refer to them) and spike weapons. Slug weupons can
Legions. When replacement parts for the older Mercury Class weapons
penctraie vehicular anmor,mnking them useful in anti-vehicularcombat.
On the other hand,slug weapons have an incredible recoil, often making
ran out a Naram leam constructed a similar weapon for the CAF.The
result is the sleek Grant rifle.It can hold two polymer blocks at onetime,
them difficult to wield in combat.
Sug wcapons consume power at a much higher level than spike
'exiending its use between relouds falthough it then takes 2o seconds2
roundsto reloady, fi is streamlined, and light enough to make it a
wcapons and use upmuch morc polymer per shot However,even though
cherished weapon in a moving firefight.
they are bulky and heavy, many infantry prize them for their penetration
power in a firefight.
OMNICLASS RIFLES
OMNIClass nnlesare inuseextensivelybybothTOGandCommon
wealth legions Thosc wenpons usethe same technology as spike and slug
projectors, comnbining the features of both into a single system. These
guns have the ability to adjust between a shower of spikes and a single
armor-piercing slug, This adjustment takes 1o seconds (one combat
roundi.
Damage,energy consumed, and effective ranges all depend on
which setting ts in use.Therefore two sets of statistics are listed for cach
OMNI gun..
BALLISTIC-GRADEPOLYMER AMMUNITION
Spike, slug and OMNI weapons all use the same type of polyimer
block foraimmunition,sothese blocks are interchangeablethroughoutthc
entire eroup of weapons. Thc matcrial is sliced off length-wise for nifles,
widith-wise forcarbines,and depth-wise for pistols. cThis accouints for dhe
yarying numbcr of sbols that each weapon gets from the same block. lt
is not uncommon to sce infantrymcn scouring a baitlefield after a fight.
gathering up leftover blocks.

--- PAGE 61 [OCR] ---
GOGO
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
MERCURY OMNI RIFLE CTOG
MANTICHORESPIKERIFLE(TOG)
Cos1800
Cost 530
Spike Setting
Damage: 24
Damage:12
Range:
Range.
Shor:700 (+2)
Short:450(+3)
Mediun: 1700+1)
Mediumt1300(+2)
Long: 2200 (-)
Long:2100 (-)
Ammunition(cost):10(5)
Amimunitionfcost:1o(5)
Powerper shot (rescrve):1(To)
Power per shot (reserve):1 (40)
Slug Selling
Named for General Amile Mantichoreofthe KessRith conflictthis
Damage (vehicular: 24(2)
gun is the standard issue rifle in the TOG fighting legions, It was poorly
Range:
designed andoften lost powerafterswitching fron thepainting laser.This
Short.600 t)
defieicncy has been resolved, but the system has a bad reputation still
Medium: 1650 (-2)
among the infantry.
Long:3000.(4)
Ammuniton.cost-1o.(5)
HORNET SPIKEPISTOL(CW)
Power per shot (reserve):4 (40)
Cost:300
Damage: 6
The Mercury Class OMNI rifle was fiurst introduced into TOGforces
Ranget.
3o0 yars ago and is today's most popular rifnle.Tts boxy,unimaginative
Short: 200 (+3)
shape is well recognized. Tt has proven to have many deficiencies,
Medium:500 t-)
however.including areportedlyhigh jamrate,and isan overall nightmare
Long:900 (-1)
tomaintain.Still, it is highly prized by the common infantrymant of TOG.
Ammunition(cost):25(5)
Power per shot (reserve): 1.(25)
SPIKEWEAPONS
Manufacturedby Artibamast Industries,this weapon is the standard
HANTRUS SPIKE PISTOLTOG)
iksue of the Commonwealth Armed Porces, It is a small gray pistol
Cost 180
capable of firing a stream of2mmn thick plastic spikes ata rate of over 500
Damige: 6
a second
Range:
Short300 (+3)
Medium: 600 (-2)
Long.850.(-4)
Ammumition(cost:2565)
Power per shot (reserve): 1 (25)
The Hantrus spike pistot is standard issue in the TOG legions arratsd
against the KessRith and the Commonwealih, A long tem coatract with
themanufacturer,Carlatechno Inc.hasinsured thatthis pistol will be used
foryears to come.
DIVIDERSPIKECARBINETOG)
CosL:400
Damage:12
Range:
Shom:400/+2)
Mediun:1100 (-)
Long:1500 (-3)
Ammunition (cost):15(5)
Powerper shot (reserve):1 (1S)
The Divider Spike Carbine is.manufactured by Barbarus Arms ind
has only come into.use in the TOG legions in the last Bo years.
Iris a sleek blnck carbineand is considered one cf themost accurate
of these weapons at close range The Divider has aspecially modified
hollow stock fiuted for carying two exira polymer blocks.

--- PAGE 62 [OCR] ---
AGGGOGOOGGG
OGGO
TEKTARA SPIKE CARBINECW)
TEREREHEAVYASSAULTRIFLETOGI
Co5t:475
Cos:1200
Damage:12
Damage (vehicular): 48 (4)
Range.
Range:
Short:S00(43)
Short: 800(-3)
Medium1000(+1)
Medium:1700(-4)
Long:1800-)
Long:2700 (-5)
Ammunitioncosty:Ts.cs)
Ammumuoncost45
Power per shot (reserve): 1 (1s)
Power per shot.(reserve4:t6)
Tekiara is the Baufrin word for"Painful Insect Stingand illustrates
The Terere heavy assault rifle is a nifle onty in the loosest scnsc of
this CAF spike carbine's reputation Ir hasa loneer barel than it's TOG
the word In realiry. it is a shoulder-mounted slug-projccting cannon
counterpart,and is very light for transportation purposes.The Tektara is
designed for usc against Grav tanks and other hcavily armored vehicies.
well proven in combal and is considered to be the premier of the splke
ToG troops referto this as aKess-Crusher.
carbines. Ir has a flatblack color and iseasily camouflaged withcommon
Spray paints.
RAKTARUSSPIKERIFLECW
Cost:500
Damage: 24
Range:
Short: 700 (+1)
Medium170o(+1)
Eon2300(-)
NITRONICSLUGRIFLECW
Ammunition fcost:1oc5)
Cost:9D0
Power pershot (rererve):1 (to)
Damage (vehiculari:24 (2)
Range:
The Raktarus is a modification of a very old weapon originally used
short 650)
during theearly years of the Terran Republic Iris old itselfand somewhat
Medium: 2000 (-1)
bulky to use, but it has well-esiablished accuracy and exceptional rangc.
Long:2800(-2)
explaining why it is still in service with the CAF.
Ammunition (cost:8.S)
Power per shot(resenve):3 (24)
SLUGWEAPONS
The Nitronic Model Iassaut rifleis the lightweight Commonwealih
slug projector. This weapon is the core of the very mobile and effective
TONITRUSASSAULTRIFLE CTOG
B'ckkal Assauli Legions, The Model I is very compact in its design and
Cost:630
has several strong recoil dampers that help reduce its kick when firing.
Damage (vehicular:36 (3)
This gun is also found in miny strike elements of the CAF's Naram
Range:
Spocial Forces, It is exceptionally accuratc at close quanters.
Sho:600 (-2)
Medium:1600 (-3)
MONTYHEAVYASSAULTRIFLECW)
Long 2000 (-4)
CSL1300
Ammunition (cost:6(5)
Damage (vehiculark:48 (4)
Power.pershot (reserve):-3(18)
Range!
The Tonitrus assault rifle is a large slug projector capable of
Short: 90o(-4)
Medium:2100(-5)
inflicting heavy damage against both personnel and vehicles. Despite
Long:3100 (-5)
three recoll compenshtors,this assault rifleisstill very hcavyanddifficult
Ammunitiontcostcr4(5)
to managc. It is one of the phimary infantry-carried anti-vehicular guns
Power per shot (rescrved cl6)
cmployed by the Terran Overdord Govemment, It is often referred to as
"Old Ambusterby those troops who have to deal with its kick.
The Monty Class heavy assault rifle is lso known as the *Can-
Kicker"in rebunal to TOG's Terere (see above),This slug projector is
very heavy to move and difficult to fire for any length of timeMoving
targets aure difficult to track with it in close fighting,and in is preferred for
use at long ranges Irdoes have excellent penetration and range however.
and is one of the most advanced anti-vehicular weapons in thc Comimon-
wenlth Armed Forces

--- PAGE 63 [OCR] ---
GOOGGGGGGGG
AGGGGGGOGGGGGGGGGG
EXPLOSIVES
Bothsides or the current cdnflict use snoke grenadey to cover
mavement The smoke released effectively reflects most of thc clcctro-
mugneuc spccuun
In combat there are a number of eaplosive devices thal can come
Smokc ercnades arc dhrown or fited like other grcnadcs, On detona-
into play.They range from grenades Claunched and/or thrownj to anti-
tion, the only damage thcy catse is a thiek cloud of smoke for 20 melers
personncl mines and even utility explosives, Explosives are common-
in-all directions
place and readily accessible to combat personnel or thosc working for
This.cloud will block all siehting attempts by any type of sensor:
intelligence services.SeeArea Effect Weapons fera description onhow
visual,thcmographic.radar.ctc.Acharactermayattempttofirethrough
these weapons ane used.
the.sinoke in the suspecied direction of a targct If so, 15 is added to the
defending total of any such target, Clouds nntually fade and disappear in
C34PLASTICEXPLOSIVE
SDio minutes,sooner ifthere is a sinong wind.
Cost 60/sticklen
Offensive Modifier2
GRENADELAUNCHERS
Damaee: 12/stickleil at ground zcro
C34 is a very stable plistic explosive that is applied in 50-gram
ANTHONY GRENADELAUNCHERITOG
stickletts In is waterproof, impact proof and evcn resistant to electrical
Cost:200
shocks. It can only be set off by a very specific light/sound pulse.
Damage: By grenade type
C34 does 12 points of damage at ground zero ta 1-meler-radius
Range:
circle) for cach So-gram sticklett To determine if a character within the
Short:100 +1)
blast radius is hit,multiply the number ofSo-gram units by 2 to provide
Medium 200 (-)
the explosion s Dexterity," then make the necessary roll against thc
Long:50o ()
intended target's Agility.C34 loses 6 points of damage and 1 point of
Power per shot (rescrve):2 (8)
Dexterity per meter from ground zero.
Detonalors for C34 (about 2 centimeters across)are applied directly
The Anthony Class grennde launchercan be sidc-mountcd on a spike
to the sticklett The device can be rigged fortimed detonation (uptoa 48
rifle or a slug projcctor. It can also be triggered by hund In either case.it
hour delay or can be set withatnp-wire or remote ccntrol dcvice. When
consists of a specially puckaged cylinder of 4 grcnades thit can he fired
ctivated it sends a short pulsc of light (at C34's vulnerable spectnum)
individually or all at onceas automatic fire.
into the trainslucent stick,momcntarily priming the churge.The lieht is
This launcherts disposable and cannot be reloaded after discharging
immedinately followed by a sound puise whichdetonates tho plastic.If the
the 4 grenades.Tfnne-mounted itis removed and rcplaced with a new.
light is not immediately followed by the sound, the priming lapses.The
loaded tubc,replnccmeot takes 30 seconds  combat rounds).
detonator is programmed by a Det-Kit
This substance is manufactured in both the Commonwcalth and for
the TOG military. It is commonly issued to engineening squads for
demolition work.
ANII-PERSONNELGRENADES
Cost:50
Offensive Modifier.1S
Damage:90
Grenades in the current connlict berween TOG and the Common-
wealth/Rencgade Legions are small circulur devices.The outer casing is
DOUGLAS GRENADE LAUNCHER W
madeofduable plasticthalfrigments intoshapshiurds intheesplosion
Cosr: 240
The inner explosive is coated in a dimpled layer of lightweight alloy that
Damage By grenade type
also separates on impct.
Range:
The Archbar IP37 is the TOG standurd issue grennde while the
Short:90 (+4)
Yosaki15 is the Commonwealth/Rencgade Legion euivalent. Both are
Medium:100 (+1)
of dhe.sane general size but neither can be used m the opposing force s
LOn:200()
launching eguipment.
Power per shot (reserve):2 (8)
SMOKEGRENADES
Like its TOG eguivalent, the Douglas Class grenade launchercan be
Cost:20
stock-mounied or handheld.Tt has a shorter range than the TOG cquiva-
Defensive Modiferals
lent, but significantly bclter accuracy in close quarters.
Damage:Smoke
The Douglas launcher cun easily be field stripped and refiuied for
reuse.unlike the TOG Inunch mechanism. The Douglas is sccn by many
infantry as a solution tothe agc-old difficultyof small cxplosiveshow
to get then to the enemy without getting too close to get killed yturself.

--- PAGE 64 [OCR] ---
GGG
GOGGOOGGGGGG
ANIBPERSONNEMINES
OSHAKA MORTARICW
Cost:100
Cos:8900
Damage (vehiculari 6otSiat ground zero
OffensiveModifier18
Offensive Modifier30
Damage (vehicular):36 (3) (at groundzero)
Range:
Both the Commonwealth and TOG employ the used of buried anti-
Short500 (+1)
personnel mines.The TOG version is theIP352while the Commonwealih
Mediam 2200.(-1)
Variety is a Jeffenes 203, They have simllar stats, as indicatod CNote:
Long:4000 -3)
these mines also represent Cenlurion s ADM Artillery Dispensed
Power per shot (reserve):4 (32)
Mines.
Ammunition (cost:4280)
At ground zcro.mincs do 6o points of damage.Foreach meter away
from ground zero, mines lose 1 point of Dexteriry and 2 points of dimage.
TheOshaka is named aftertheKessRith Word forDeath Rain.This
(Assunc any ground vehicle hns AG 12 in rolls against mines.)
mortar has been in use in the CAF for only the past 20 years, after
Mines can be rigged foc timcd or rermole control detonation, either
arangements had fially been made to import the design from the
of which reguires theuse of a Det-Kit They can also berigged to go ot
KessRith Empire In is imteresting to note that this mortar has sufficient
when pressure is applied, or when a Gniv or magnetic field passes over
power reserve to fire off two complete clips, rather than just one.
them.
TVLG
MORTARS
Cost:1000
Mortars are one-person weaponis that can deliver considerable
Dampe (vehicular):60(5)
firepoweragainst vehiclesand opposing troops:
Range:
Morurs come in two parts:a base unit containing a power pack and
Short:200 (+1)
Medium:600(-)
fire control,and a chipoffour rotinds,already in a launchtube.The rounds
are electromagneticully launched from their tubes cither individially or
Long: 1200 (-1)
In an automatic firc volley.A mortar can be fired at a line-of-sightiargel
or at an uinscen target designated by a fnendly plinting laser.
TVLG is the tnuincated acronym for "Tuhe or Vertically Launched
Atarrivat the round discharees up to 3obomnbleis.Thesedevices
Lascr Guided MissileBoth the Commonwealih ad TOG useTVLGs
streak down to the urget.cxploding on impact. All dischargc a hard alloy
in combat. This Is not the standard vehicle-mounted yersion but an
tipon impact that can create havoc with grav tanks and infantry personnel
infuntry-carried version, thoueh both do identical damage, Normally a
alike. A monar's attack is resolved as one area effect explosion
sguad of eieht has four of thismissiles available to it onesoldier to fire
Mortars are very heavy devices cuinbersometocarry whilefighting
cach one and a partner to designate the target with a painting laser, The
for your life.making themunpopularwith light.mobiletroops.Nomally
sight of an infintry squad armed with these weapons is enough to send
asguad mancuvers with twobaseunits(eoch camied byasingleman) nd
shivers down the spine of even the most experienced tankers.
havethe othier six mien in the squad carry onc clip ofrounds along with
This single missile-a slighty modified Hammerhead round is
thcir pcrsonal wcapons.
packed in a disposable tube for firing- It is the primary anti-vehiculur
weapon used by infantry troops, due to its ight weight, ease of use, and
devastating penctration capability.
This infantry-carried version can only be fired at line-of-sight
targets, Since its immense poweris wastcd on the few infantryman it can
affect with a single roind, it is more commonly used against vehicles It
takes To seconds tone combat roundy to hccurately activate and aim this
JUSTINTOG
weapon. During thal time no other action can be taken by either the firing
Cos17800
or painuing character.
If the missile is being fircd at a trget that has been designated by a
Offensive Modifier 18
Damage (vehiculari: 36 (3) (at ground zero)
painting luser, add 3 to the range modifier.
Range:
Shont600.(-)
Medium:2000 (-1)
Long: 3900 (-2)
Power per shot (rcserve:.4 (16)
Ammunitiontcost:4(280)
The Justin Class TOG infantry mortar was designed'nearly sO years
agoby Aronnis Industries,and has been the standard issueinfantrymortar
In TOg leglons for halfofa cenluryaDespileits sizeand complexity.tho
Justin is easily maintained and field stripped.

--- PAGE 65 [OCR] ---
AEGGGGGGOGG
LASERPISTOLSAND RIFLES
AKLEYLASERRIFLETOG)
Cos:450
Lasers use n Gennium-Arsenic laser crystal mounted to a power
Damage:12
supply.usually an armored combat suit orextemal power pack.The GA
Range::
crystal focuses the energy into a shont burst of deadly firepower.
Short: 350 (+2)
Lasers as fireams have been available forcenturies,but are still very
Medium:1000(+1)
expensive and consume a great deal of power. On the other htnd,there is
Long:1500 (-2)
no recoilwhen firing these weapons,making them a classic space Marine
Power per shot (reserve):2 (40)
sideann.
Laser pistols and rifles are equipped for double duty as painting
Manufactured by the Jankowski Amaments small products divi-
lasersThey have comim-units and can relay shield infomationautomati.
sion, the Akley replaces the older Gilmore Class laser rifle.This ts the
cally when set to paint. (They cannot fire normally while painting.)
standard weapon of the TOG Marine in combut and ihere are millions of
Additionally,military issue laser weapons come with couplings
thcm in use throughout civilized space, The Akley is known for its ease
whieh allowthemto inicgrale intothe argeting andnight yisionsystems.
ofuse and its special laser stiletioy/bayonctmount (which doubles the cost
in the helmets of allcombat suits, If these weapons are fired without being
ofthennetstilello ncudedyand can beuniggered from thenine s stock).
hooking into a combat helmet or targeting goggles,modify the antacker's
total by-2.
PROTECTORLASERPISTOL(CW
Laser crystals.can only endure shont bursts of fire or they overheat
Cost410
and crack,becoming worthless,Threfore, all standard issue laser fire-
Damage:6
arns have govemon which onlyallowsingleshots torthe mpid bursts of
Range.
automaticfire).The average crystal can withstnd over 3ooo shiots befone
Short: 5o(+1)
it is so weakened that it must be replaccd as pan of general maintenance
Medium:200(-)
Long:450 (-1)
K-BURNER LASERPISTOLCTOG)
Powerper shot (reservey1(15)
Cost: 390
Damage:6
The Protector Class laser pistol is a common sideam in the Com-
Range:
monwealth Amed Fbrces, While i lacks some of the ringe of the
Short: 60 (+2)
equivalcnt TOG weapon.itis lighterand carries scveralmore shots worth
Medium: 200 ()
of reserve powetoften dhe difference betweenlite anddeah for a
Long: 500 (-2)
Marine or infantry trooper.
Power per shot (reserve): 1 (10)
SABRE-CUTLASER RIFLE(CW
The K-Bumer, shont For KessRith Burner, has been the standard
Cost:500
TOG Marine plstol for several centuries. This weapon has a long barrel
Damage: 12
and a menacing appearance. It is jet black in color and bears the silver
Rangc.
TOGlogoon itsgnp.
Short: 500 (+2)
Medium:1200 (-)
Long:1900 (-1)
Power per.shot (reserve): 2 (40)
00
The Sabre-Cut laser rifne replaces the much older Baufrin-designed
Sly Class rifle used by the Comimonwealth Marine Corps. Over the past
So years this weapon has bccome thc standard for Marines and has proven
to havea longerrangethan its ToG counterpart The Sabre-Cut is easily
recognized by its massive siock and bulky power miinchmcnt gcar,

--- PAGE 66 [OCR] ---
OOGGGG
EXPERTSYSTEMS
Cost ar Target Modifier Level
Shil/System
Ambrsh
300
400500600
700
For sevcral cenluries, both TOG und the Commonwcalth have
Astrondwgdhor
TOK
33K
bencfited greatly from the usc of expert systeins in comhat and other
80K
P-CO
400
500
0.600
800
22K
12K
stuarions.
28K
VLCA COMM
400
500
600
800
13K
26K
An cxpert system is a module or systeim. that has informiation
32K
Compater Sec.
300
500
600
IK
15K
26K
graphically stored on it in a given subject malter. This infonmation is
33K
300
Denonons
400
500
600
13K
25K
accessibletoan opcrator.Thcexpertsystemahsorbsdata,analyzesit.and
400
EnvSurua
800
IK
2K
3K
13K
mnkes a logical choice or selection based on thnt data
Guneny
500
700
900
IK
2K
12K
Anexampleisa Med Techxpertsystem ltallowsanoviceoperator
ISK
Languager!
250
500
700
IK
16K
29K
to passa scnsorofsome sontovera patientand diagnoseaproblen,Then
33K
Mapping
300
400
500
700
22K
it would inform the person as to what steps.must be followed to help the
25K
MedTech
500
800
5K
15K
27K
IK
31K
situation.
Pilor
IK
2K
20K
36K
SOK
RepairTecht
300
400
12K
500
900
600
29K
HOWEXPERTSYSTEMSAREUSED
Tactics
500
600
700
006
13K
Expertsystems come ina varieby offormsin Leglonnaire.In game
Target Acg.*
700
006
12K
800
15K
terms,these systems allow a charactertomakca skill roll on asubjector
mater in which he doesn't have the appropriate skill,and to do so with a
=1000Talents
certain expectation of success. The beilet systems can also temporurily
The system is not available at this level
improve the levelof a skilled churacter.
= A cluster of skills, with an expert system for each
systcm, he is allowed to make a normal skil check with that particular
MAPPINGANDLANGUAGES
skill,modifying the targetnumber bythe lcvelof theexpert system.Thus
Two groups of systemns listed on the chan are Mapping and Lan-
ifhewants tousea-2Demolitionsexpent system.heonly hastoroll2D10.
modifying the target by -2 While uaking 2 from a target number doesn't
guages These hre two areas where expert systems exist, but are treated
differently in terms of play.
seemtohelp,considerthatinanormalungualifiedskillroll.therollwould
be made with an additional die, something significantly more difficult
Inexpensive, low-level Mapping systems are usually issued to
(See Unqualified Skimi Use) While capert systems aredesigned to assist
troops.so thal thcy can plug them into thcir helmcts and deiemine where
they are at any time tf appropriate and available, iniernior building
thcy.cannot instantly tum a novice intoan expet.
specifications and blueprints are often included in the system Usually a
If a person ulready has a skill, he may still use an expert system.
defending force will have more detailed Mapping eapert systems than an
applying its modifier to the turget number. Note that simplistic systems
invading force.How this is affects play is up to the GM.
Cthosc ncgatively rated) hurtanyone who is already skilled.
Language expen systems allow the opcrator to speak into a sensor
All expert systems with modifiers from-3 to + are module sized.
(helmet versions use the mike in the head gear) and the systen provides
They are approximniely 4centimctcrs high by 4in diameter and can plug
the proper translation, either wnnen on a screen or crally via a speaker.
direcily into any combat heimet In this way the suit sensors and visor
As with the Si skill of the samc type cach Languagc system is pro
displays can beused with thesystem.Tris not at alluncommon forinfantry
personnel to camy several expert systems in their utility belis,plugging
gimned for a specific language, such as KessRith or Baufrin.
ihem into thcir helmetsas needed.
BOOSTERS
Modules can also be plugged into control consoles on cverything
from small craft and Gray tanks lo capital ships, Thus, if a charicter
wanied to avoid a potcntial ambush, hc could plig his.Ambush expert
The devastating firepower available in the 69th century means that
system into a vehicle control and it would display the routes most likely
peopleare often injured,often senously.In ordertocomipensate,medical
Vulnerable.to ambush
tcchnology has developed systcms desiencd tomobilize the immobile
Expcnt systcms from +2 to +4 are actually smnll portable computer
on the butilefield These systemis ae known as boorfers.
sysiems, These syslems have a roll-out viewing screen and, whcre
A booster is, in essence, a very high tech bunduge, When wrapped
appropriatesensor devices.Thesc systems all have a power reserve of
around a wound or an immobile limb,it sedates the area.sterilizes it.and
120 and consume as much power per minute as their rating cfrom 2 per
scals it from funher damage. The booster then replicates the action of the
minute to 4 per minutey.
limb or area of the body feeding off infomation from the injured man s
The following expert systens are stmndard in the Renegade Legion
own electronic nurological impulses, This returns mobility to the limb,
universe Each entry with an asterisk, such as Gunnery and Environ.
nlthough at -3 to its.Speed, It also restores CN lost by wounds on thc
mentulSurvival,areactuullymultipleentries,oneperskill inthosegroups
trcated area,up to the ating of the booster. Clt does not restore CN lost to
of skills.Each system in a group ofskills costs the lisied amount. (Thus,
other wounds.)
a +I Gunnery.Ground sysitemcosts 2000.
Boosters are most commonly usedwhen someone is hit in an am or
This table listsall of the standardlyavailable systems comesponding
leg and the limb is badly damaiged A booster is applied, and the person
to Legionnaireskills,although the GM should feel freetomodify this list
can cnce miore nin, walk, and fighi if necessary.
in any way hewishcs!
A booster is a heavy cloth wrap.interlaced.with electronically
sensitive and dctive carbon fibers, The side wrapped toward the body is

--- PAGE 67 [OCR] ---
GGGG
covered with small, fiber-feed sensors that read data from the victim to
rctum mobility.-Also there are over a dozen smnll fibers used by the
boostertoadministerdnugsand local scdatives tothedamagedareaThcre
are also small tubes that extend when the device is wrapped, miostly to
recoverand recirculate body floids
The outerportiog ofthe booster hasa stnall control pad witha simple
readout device that indicales the extent of the truuna under the booster.
This control pad can tie directly into any +2 through 4 MedTech expert
System for monitoring thc patient Woonds and Healing covcrs boostcr
use in detail.
TYPESOFBOOSTERS
Boosterscome mn threc different types.Large limb boostersare uscd
on lcg injuries lo restore theability to walk.Small hmb boostersare used
on the ims and,toa limiled degree.thehands.Torso bcasters are used
for torso wounds, where Iniemal organs may be damaeed, Like most
cquipment, boosters have power requireanents and a power reserve. Each
booster also has an adapier thal can link to cxtemal power sources.
Boosters cannot be applied to the head in any manner. Several
versions ofa hcad booster are rumiored to cxist in TOG scctors of space.
but these ane so far too sensitive for batlefield environments.:
LARGELIMB BOOSTER
Cost50 x rating
Poweruse(reservey:2perminute(70)
Rating: 2-11
SMATLLINIRROOSTER
Cost 50xruting
Poweruse (reserve):1 permintute(so)
Rating:2-11
TORSO BOOSTER
Cost:100 x raling
Powcruse (reserve):2perminute (80)
Rating: 2-11
APPLYINGA BOOSTER
Each booster has a MedTech skill level rating Anyone attempting
toappby a booster must make a successful MedTech skill roll at that level.
Ifhis MedTech'skil level isn'thigh enough hemustroll an additional die
for cach levebywhich he talls.shorthedoesn thave ophe must
also roll an additional die for cach point of lo by which he Talls short
However, he mayapply anymodifiers from theuse of a MedTechexpert
system when detemining his cument skill level
EFFEGTOFABOOSTER
Boosters do ngf stabilize a wound. They simply provide a retum of
mobility to a damaged area This reduces any speed rolls that reguire the
useof that limbby-3.Further,anycombat or other skill-relaied rolls thal
reguiretheuse of the limb wrapped ina boostcraremodified by-3as well.
accounting for thc slower. less accurate functioning of the booster-
controlled limb.
SUBSEOUENT DAMAGE
If the limb wrapped in a booster is once again hit, the booster is
destroyed and the churacter receives double the nomnal damage.This is
in addition toany other location modifiers for damage.

--- PAGE 68 [OCR] ---
GOGG
AGGGGGGOGGOGGGGGGO
MISCELLANEOUSEOUIPMENT
GAMO-TINTER
CoS:700
Not all equipment in Legionnaire is used for combat purposes.
Power usc (reserve): per 10 minutes (15)
Some inems here are supplernentalt odhers are of use only on specinlized
Rating:3
missions, Stil other itcms,while rarc,havecustomized applications in
The Camo-Tinteris a light-gcncrating device about five centimeters
combat or on adventures requiring stealth.
on a side It has a sensor device that keys into thecolor pallems of
Notethat manypieces ofequipment have a rating assigned.Ifa piece
Surrounding lerrain, and projects a trigger-light out from the front of the
ofequipinent is used to aid a characler in a skill check or saving roll,this
tinter,If any armoted combat suit is within hnlf a meter of the light, thc
rating is added to the character's total when making the roli.
suitadjusts its colorpaltem chemicallytofitthatof the scnsor's input.The
BOUNEPAOK
tinter's filing iof 3 is added to any skill check or saving roll thai the
Cost:3100
character makes to avoid bcing detccted by visunl sensors.
Power use: 6 per minute cl perroundy
Thus, in winter troops hold up a Camo-Tinter, tnking in the whites
and grays of the snow.Then they tun it on, passing it over thcir combat
Reserve (if not part of a suiny: 300
suits, This device chemically alters the color pallem on the exterior of the
Bounce packs are anti-gravity devices won on the back of infantry
arinor, tuming it into a paltem of whites and light grays.
troops.Whenactivaled viaa link tothevoicecominand unit of in armored
It takes S minutes to completely tint a suit Usually one tinter is
Combat suit, a pack ncgales its soldier's weight, allowine him to move
assigned to a CompanyACentury-sized unit.
more quickly and camy a heavier load. The pack also has a govenor on
DET-KIT
Itto insurethat the soldierdoes rotexceed 36kph, spceds higher than that
could easily result in the soldier injuning himseif sincehismass and inertia
Cost:2100
haven'tchanged,This govemoralsoallows bouncetroops todeployfrom
Power use (reserve):1 per S min.(25)
grav vchicles flying at high speeds and altitudes. When travelling faster
A Det-Kitis about 6 x 12 x 4 centimeters large It is designed to ng
than 36kph, the grav vehicle must be at least 20 meters above the ground
and set cxplosivc devices. It allows its operator to set detooators and
when thc troopcr deploys.
control their explosions, Furthennore, a Det-Kit analyzes the combat
A jumping character should make a 2Dio Bounce Pack Operations
frequcncies being used in the immediate vicinity and selects delonation
skilnl check based on his Aeility. If successful, he Lands safely on the
freguencies not currently in use,so that the explosives will not be
ground. Failure means thar he takes damage as per Falling Damage (2
tniggered accidentally.
points for every 5 mcters fallen) with 2 points of additional damage for
A Det-Kit ineludes 3O detonator disks.These arefed into a smal slot
cvery S kph that the vehicle was traveling when the troopcr juinped.
and with the appropriate Demolicions skil roll. are programmed for
The advantage of a pack is that it negates the gravity of the wcarer
timed, remotely-tniggered, or booby-trapped detonation. (Possible
and his eguipment Thus.infantry can camy largeweapons and quantities
booby-trap triggcrs includemotion sensors,oreven detection ofa specific
of supplies for a short period of time without tiring. A bounce pack can
modcn.
negate 2ookilogrnims of mass at I gravity:though bulk is still a problem
Each Del-Kit has a very small communication system with a 5-
In addition, a pack triples the land specd of anyoneusing it.
kilomcterrange.Upto lOcharges can be rigged todetonate via the switchy
Bounce packs can rechargeata rate of 120points perminute C20 per
circuits on the systrem. It takes 2Dio minules to sct any detonator for usc.
round)when connccted to anotherpower supply,Theirpowerreservecan
-1 for every Demolitions'skill level over 3 (-1 for level 4,-2 for level S.
also be used to recharge other items.
When jumping,it also costs 5 power points for each 5kph that thc
etc
vehicle istraveling.
DISGUISEKIT
Cost:100 x rating
Rating:2-5
In intelligence communitics, disguise kits are very common. Each
kit includes a wide range of chemical makeups, dyes and tints, all for
changing a person s appearance, More advanced kits (those with higher
ratings) include hypodermics and dnugs.to relax muscles for reshaping
nd realigning,common in focial restnucturing.

--- PAGE 69 [OCR] ---
Both TOG and the Commonwealth use these assault systems for
DROPPOD
troop deployment. The TOG version is the Fallschrimjager Clnss, while
Cost:5000
Power used in landing:700+(Io0 xplanet's gravity +.1 perminute)
Commonwealth drop pods.are known as Hamilcars.
In addition to these common pods, there are also pods for insening
Powerreserve:1ooo
Lifesupport:60 minutes
and retrieving agents. These pods have triple the nommal power reserve,
suficient life suppont to allow a person to spend up to three days in one,
Drop pods are often used in military operations to place troops In a
and unti-grav lift capabilities that can push the pod to a suborbitul
specific area, Both Marine and strike units use pods to drop individual
trujectoryin gravitywellsup to 1.75 Earthnormal.These pods cost 5o.o0
troopers from low.crbitonto aplanet.
aplece
Eachdroppod is roughly egg-shaped and'made of mnleials that are
ECM JAMMING DEVICE
VerydifficulttodetectItis5mcters tall and3.Smeters indiameter.Itcin
carry one fully equipped combat soldier from orbit to planet-side, taking
Cos1:1200
Powerusc (rescrve):1perminute (20)
ahouri5minutcstodo so.
In combat situations,groups of Drop.Pods descend like paratroop-
Range 200 meters
ers.The accurate navigation of these devices is dependent on a Drop Pod
Raling:3
Operations skill check on Dx. Failure means that the pod landed off
This device is a small box usually wom by a Platoon commander on
target,iDiokilometers away.Usually thepod'soccupantmakes thisroll.
his eguipment belt.It has several control knobs and is used to jam the
However.pods(eithermandedorloaded withcquipmentjcanalsobe pre-
enemy's energy-based sensors locally. It can also scramble opposing
programmed to land at designated coordinates by outside operator with
communications. Both sides of the present conflict use these devices,
Drop Pod Operutions skill. Reinotely directing a pod adds 1 die to the
knownasJam Boxes.
difficuliy ofthecheck and the remote check ismade using IQ,rather than
When in use, this device requires that sensors make a chock ys, the
DX. In this case, failure indicates the pod landed 2Dio kilometers off
ECM/ECM skill of thedevice's operator.Thc rating of thedevice (3)is
target.
added to the operator s total, ff the check fils, they ure jammed.
Pods can be recharged in dhe same manner as all other military
equipment Likewise, all drop pods have four power adeptors on the
extenor for infantry link-up once they have landed, They have an amor
rating of 6 and aretotally self-contained units.They have a 60-minute air
supplyforthecccupant.Eachone cancamy4okilogruns ofmaterial and
supplies.
FORGERY KIT
Cost: 1000 x rating
Power use (reserve) I per minute (70)
Rating:2-6
This small, box-like device is a portable kit for the manufaclure of
false documcnts and identification, It is highly sophisticated, having the
ability to capture photographic images and transfer them ontoa varicty of
documentation.With it,signatures can be duplicated, and false lellerhead
and scan cards can be manufacturcd on the spot.
The use of this sysiem fequires a successful Forgery skill check
(usually 2D1o) based on IQ.The kit's rating.modifies both this roll and
any roll tocheck the validity of a document it manufactured.Itis a simple
system to operute, but requires a variety of input from the operalor
including sainples of similar matcrials,magna-codes for scanners,etc,
Often, gathening these samples is more difficul than creating the actual
forged docunent.

--- PAGE 70 [OCR] ---
GGG
GRAV-STRETCHER
GROUNDSENSORS
Cost 990
CosC 200 x rang
Power use (reserve): I per minute (So)
Power use (reserve):1 per S minutes (20)
Range:100mctcrs.x.rating
A Grav-stretcherconisists of two telescoping rods linked to grav lift
Rating-1-10
deviccs.Berwcen thetwo'rods isa liehtweight butdurable cloth material
The complete assernbly has limited potential and can do limle more than
Ground sensors are uscd to remotely monitor areas They ure
hold a fully cquipped person one meter off of the ground. Wounded
nomally Timited to linc-of-site detectionmouion.visuals.mulibands
personnel are placed on the cloth and moved along, hovering over the
and spectnums. They cmploy a lascr/radar mapping system, constantly
ground.This unit has no propulsion system and must be manually pushed
mapping.the lcrrain and feeding an expent system which looks forenemy
otpulled.t takes Soseconds(5 combatrounds)tofully setupand activate
profiles, Their rating is added to any skill check to detect persons or
a stretcher.Ittakesa IDiocheck against Agility to successfully setupand
vehicles within ringe.
use agrav-sirctcher.
GRAV-TRANSPORT PLATFORM
Cost:1700
Power use (reserve): 1 per minute (100)
A gray plarform is a lightweight metallic plaifom that hus a small
Marshman field generator and power supplybuilt intoit Its size is 2 x 4
melers.It can lift a total of looo kilos,upto haifacmeter off the ground.
Once activated, this load can then easily be pushed and maneuvered by
hand Calthough tnertia can still bc n problemy, There is no propulsion
system'on the plalform.
This device is commonly used for moving large ouantities of gear
supplies, and in some cases, even personncl. TIr has govermors which
prevent it from tnivelling fasicr than 36 kph.

--- PAGE 71 [OCR] ---
HOLOTARP
Cost:1300
Powerusc trescrve):1perlominutes (15)
Rating:2
A holotarp is a reflective cloth device powered from a small control
pack the size of a flashlight When activated, this system refracts light
from the sunounding temain elfectively becoming camouflage for any-
one under the tarp.
Holotarps measure4x4melers square.They arepackaged inabrick-
tikeblock sealed in plastic.Thcy arewaler-resistantand effectuive cven in
full daylighl Sensor sweeps are able to detect the power source on
holotarps,but ofien cannot visually lock on the target.
LISTENINGDEVICE
NIGHTVISION GOGGLES
Cost: 500 x.raling
Cost: 400
Range: loo meters
Poweruse(reserve),1perSminutes(20)
Poweruse.(reservej:1perminutet30)
Night vision goggles are for use in situations where combat helmets
Rating:2-6
might not be practical such as an espionage raid These goggles are
This device Ts dnly the size of a laree pocket caiculator, but is very
outfitted with sensor swecping gear and enhanced displays. Functioning
important in surveillance opcrations, Ir is designed to monitor fomns of
verysimilarly toatargeting/aightvision sight,thcyreplacethesensorsin
communicanon includingelcctrouictransmissions,magnetic data trans.
a combat helmct, ncgating non-guidance and darkness penalties.
fer. and even voice comrnunications.
PAINTINGLASER
Whcn a successful EcM/EccM skillcheck is roll against Io when
Cost:500
operating this device, it can tap intoany transfers that it has been adjusted
losearch for.Thusapersoncan be7Smeters awayand listen in ona verbal
Damager nonc
Range!
discussion.
This deyice is far from accurate and has a very limiled range.While
Short:400 (+4)
not standrd issue for the military.it is very common in intelligence
Medium.8003)
circles and is easily recogenized by anyone in this prolession.
Long:1200 (+1)
Power pershot (reserve): 1 (1o)
MEDIKITS
A painting laser has two.componeris.one the laser itself,the other
Cost: Soo x rating
a comum-unit A painting laser does no damage, being uscd to designate
Powcr use (reserve: 1 per use (30)
Rating 2-7
targets for mortar and other fireWhen it strikes a shield it cun relid the
licker rate and transmit that infomation to other units  effectiveby
A mcdikit is a small, hard-covered case filled with the tools of a
negating the shicld's modifer for other.immediate attacks against the
MedTech's trade.Thesekits contninseveral dozen drugs and painkillers,
vehicle.CAftera few seconds,the targeled vehiclewill have perceived the
as well as sterilization spriys and hypo-guns.foradministening the agents.
painting and adjusted its flickerrate. Use ofa painting laser precludes the
Each is also outfiued with an Expert System adaptor and memu screen:
usc of any weopon on which it is mounted.
Mosi medikitsalso havemooitors which relay a patient's vital signs
See Painting Lasers and Indirect Fire forspecificdetails of its use
to the screen. A singlemcdikit can montor up to tivc patients at any one
time.
Each medikit contains two small limb,two lairge limb, and three
torso boosters.each with the same rating as that of the kit (scc Boosters
and Wounds).
A medikit adds its rating to any Medtech skill checks.

--- PAGE 72 [OCR] ---
P-COMMCOMMUNIOATOR
PERSONALCOMMUNICATOR
Cos: 950
Cost 100xting
Poweruse(reserve:pcr minutc (75)
Power use (reserve:1 per5minutes 20)
Range:1 lightmonth
Range:tokilometers x.rating
Ruting.1-10
Thisdeviceis oval andabout3S centimeters long.In isasmall Phuasc
Polarizaiion Communication (p-Commj transmiting and rcceiving unit
Personal communicutors are lightweiehtaffairscapableof transmit-
While this version has a companutively lirited range when maiched
ting voicecommuinications ovcra long distance. High-mted communica
against thoseofa capitalshipor installation,itits verypopular withground
tors can be difficult to jam or intercept, since their rating modifies the
military units and Tntelligence operatives alike, The use of this device
opposing total in any such skill chccks.
requires a Communications, P-Comm skill roll.
This system is durable, and can communicate within a star system
POWER PAGKS
easily enough for troops to signal for help, or for operatives to relay
SMALL
infomation towaiting courierships. Line of sight tsn'trequired to use it.
Cost:-150
PERSCOMP
Power50
CosE175
MEDIUM
CosE 250
The PersComp is a standard travelling device used by anyonc who
Power.100
ever jumps in T-Space It is a wafer-thin band wom on the wnist which
LARGE
indicates the amount of Shimmer-Tau thnta person has accumulated,as
Cost 350
well as serving as a diary.nolebook,and appointment calendar All of
Power:200
thesc are accested through a simall readout on the band.
Mostmilitary-issue PersCompsuedirectly into the ship s computer
One of the most common items carricd by infantry troopers is 
system and issue a warming to the bridge if the present course.settings
backup powerpack.It is usually wom ina beltcompartmentoutsideofan
would over-expose anyone onbourd io Shimmcr-Tau.
urnored combat suit. Most packs are ibout two.centimeters thick, thcy
mnge in size fromn about three centimctcrs square (Small) to about 1s
centimelerssquarecLange.Whilethcir weightis ncgligible.thcir purpose
ncomDtIsnot.
Each ofthese can be plugged into an armored combat suitor attached
vinually every piece of powered military gear Plugging any item
requires lo seconds Cone combatroundyIn that timetheitem.can be set
either to drain power out of the pack and into the itent (at I point per
second), cr to operale directly off of the pack.
TARGETINGNIGHTVISIONSIGHT
Cost: 500
Poweruse (reserve): 1 per 5 minutes (20)
This system is essentially a sensor box and display that is mounted
on a weapon Functioning very similarly to night vision goggles, ii
replaces the sensors in a combat helmci, negating non-guidaunce and
darkneis penaties.This lightweight box can draw power from the gun or
any other extermal source, Ir provides excellent visual sighting for
dislances up to normal daytime visual ranges.
ZERO-GMOTIVEEOUIPMENTZGME
Cost 1000
Speed: 12
Power use:1per2 minutes
Zero-Gmotive equipmen is a combination of jcts and compensators
which allows a chanicier in zero G ror micro Gy to maneuver as though
walking or swimming on a planet giving its user SP 12, It is not useable
outsideofzero-ormicro-G.cnvironments.ltisquitebulky(Sokilograns)
nd Zero-G Operations skill is required to use itcorrecily.While itcan be
strapped on acharacter.ZGME is moreofien found buiit intoa spacesuit

--- PAGE 73 [OCR] ---
OGGGL
CIVILIANGROUNDCARS
EPICATOG)
COSL13.00
Ground vehicles operateoff siandard intemal powercells.Likeother
Poweruse (reserve 1 per kilomcler (20o0)
Occupants:4
cquipinent, they use power and must recharge i. These cars are environ-
mentally clean, make little noise.and ofien are very fast and power
Max speed:-140kph
effnicient,
The Epica comes in a vanietyofcolors, and is a good ex anpleof the
Therearenocommercialmethodsfordrawingpowerfromavehicle:
trediionnl ground car available to TOG cinizens.lr is.manufactured with
however, individunls Scivenger/Tinker or Repnir Tech, NonGrav Ve-
hicle skills should be able to aler any power adapter cord to draw cnergy
govermiment subsidics and thus is found in large numbers on almost all
TOG-occupied worids, As the saying gces, "You can have any car you
from a ground cir:
Maximum speeds listed mre for off-rond travel. Double the listed
want, as long as its an Epica p-This four-wheeled vehicle has been the
standard for ovcr 3o ycars, although there are numerous vanants of its
maximum for road travel.
design.
ARMOR
ASTRAL(CW)
Ground cars are considered to have AF 6 (nonvehicular ammor).
Cost:16.000
After any such vehicle has tnken 3 poinits of vehicular dnmnge,it is con
Powcruse (reserve): Iper.kilonmeter (2oo0)
sidered to be destroyed However, military vehicular armor can be
ccupans:5
custom-applicd to a civilian car.The cost to do so is 2oo Talents for each
Max spced:120kph
point of armcr.Armoring a civilian vehicle can slow it down.
The Astral is a large three-wheeled ground car capable of accepying
a small cargo containcr or additional sealing.Over the past lo years this
vehicle has proven to be the standard economy model in the.Comnon-
wealth, and it is truly a people's car, With sinple fold-down modifica
tionis, it can be used by Baufrin with litle difficuly and there are even
KessRithmodels availableataweryinflatedprice(25,600, 60% more than
Tisty.

--- PAGE 74 [OCR] ---
UGG
GIVILIAN GRAVVEHICLES
FAMIUS(TOG
CosL:46.000
The creation of the Marshman Drive ha caused a boom to the use
Power use (rcscrve): 2 per kilomicter (300)
of. Grav vehicles comtnercially.Faster,sleeker-and more powerful than
Occupants: S
ground transport, these cars operute in thc same mianner, using a batiery
Moxspecd:200kph
cell as a core for power to lift the vchicle.These cars cannot hover morc
than S meters oft of the surface however,due to power restraints.
The Famius is a stunning sight. Most are a glistening ebony,though
Generally speaking,only people with high incomes cun afford Gray
sorne can be found in tamer colors,This vehicle is considered to be one
vehicles, Gniy limos are very common, but family Gray vehicles are
of the most sophisticated ever created for personal use,This is the car for
relativcly rare.
the elite of the Citizenry,such as Senators and members of the Impenial
Also lisied in this section are scvcral sliders,comparableto a two
Family.On many frontier or remote worids, only a handful of these cars
wheeled ground vehicle, While they are power-efficient thcy pronvide
Will cxist.
lintleprotection, Still intermsof cost,theyareofien the cnlyway thatthe
Those who feel they nced todo so can puirchasc 3 points of vehicular
aveage person on the streel can afford Gray transportation.
plating for windows and intcrior protection, costing an additional Sooo.
Cike ground cars, civilinn Grav vehicles are considered to have AF
6 Crionvehiculur armor. After any such vehicle has taken 3 points of
HATHAWAY(CW)
vehicular damage,it is consideredto bedestroyed.Howevcr,militury ve-
Cost: 37,000
hicular anncr can be cuistom-applied to a civilian car,The cost to do so is
Power use (reserve): 2 per kilomcicr (2500)
oo Talents forcach pointof anmor.Amnoring acivilian vchiclecan'slow
Oceupants:S
t down.
Max speed: 250 kph
The Hathawiy is a luxury Gray car for those that can afford it in the
Coinonwealth, Significantly less expensive than most high-end TOG
Gray.cars, the Hathaway is commonly found on almost all worids of the
Commonwealth, While not nearly as prestigious as the Famius, it is still
considered a durable and fast method of transporiation. Almost all
Ioo Power Points in caise of failure of the main reserve.

--- PAGE 75 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGL
STALLIONSLIDERCTOG)
VONDA SLIDER(CW)
Co-t: 28.000
COS131.000
Poweruse (reservey.1per2kilometers (o)
Power use (reserve 1 per2 kilometers (1S0)
Occupants: 2
Occupants:2
Max speed:300 kph
Maxspeed:310.kph
The Stallion fs the average person's Grav vehicle,This two-scater.
The Vonda is manufactured on Rougia in the Mune Dukedom, and
has a lightweight canopy cover which protects its occupants nnd it is
can be found everywhere in Commonwealth space,These dunble Gray
capable of moving at a dramatic rate of speed Its biggest drawback is the
Tliers are fast. and easy for the common person to maintain and rcpair.
Fact that only two people can use it, and there is yiriually no room for
Sincethcybave becnavailnble for close to So years,local mechanics have
equipment lis age (in production for over 85 years) has carned it a
modified many for higher rates of speed a few even have a spike gun
reputation as the "Iron Horse"of sliders, the standard by which others are
mounted forward, for use in the CAF and planetary militia.
measured.

--- PAGE 76 [OCR] ---
OGG
GGGO
COMMERCIAL FREIGHTERS
TRAMPCLASSFREIGHTERTOGI
C5E21143,000
There is awide vanetyofcommercial FTLtransportcraft'available
Paessengers:5
The mcnchant cartels of Business Mission Tuave hundrcds of different
Cargo:2000.tons
Name SircFiL
models Traders within both TOG and the Connonwealth also huive an
Shid Thrust Wea Crew Weom Sen LifeArmr
Tramp50
extensivc number of vessels attheirdisposal
35
Most commercial ships are unamed, especially those travelling
within TOG-controlled spece. The Terran Overlord Govemment hns
The Tramp Class commercial freighter is most commonly encoun-
manystrictrcgulationson the armingofcommercinl vessels,thoughthese
tered operating privaiely within TOG-controlled space.The Tramp Class.
laws re reldxed incounties that are curently an the front lines.
which has been in use for overtwo ccntunics,has not seen any ncw ships
The Conmonwealth has a Merchint Marine service which allows
cornmissioncd n over two decades, but there are literally hundreds of
civilians to equip their vessels with the wcapons and firepower to protect
thousands of these vessels still in opcration, While this vessel is very
themselves, This scrvice has proven to reduce shipping casualties from
common in TOG spacc, thcre are also many owned and used within the
the occasional fighter interception.
Commonwealh.
Whatmakesthe Tramp Class soappealing isthefactthatitcan easily
The merchanl ciriels small commercial freighters are essentially
hcavily armed patrolclass shipsthat can cary cargo.By all accounts these
be modified After their generations of usc,no two Trumps look alike
are deadlyvessels to dcal with in close quarters.
Many have added secret weapons on the outer hull, Some have added a
The following are twoofthetypical small commcrcial freighicrsthat
foward tunet,while others have beefed up the shields and the armor
might be encountered within the Renegade Legion universe, The statis-
protection. With the myriad of modifications possible, the Tramp is
tics listed are foruse with Legionnaire Interceplorstatistics can be found
destined to be in service formany decadesto come,The listed stats arcfor
on P.XX.
atypical modification.

--- PAGE 77 [OCR] ---
OGGG
AGGGGGG
TOLEDOCLASSFREIGHTERCWI
The Toledo Class commereial freighiter is one of the favontes of thc
Cost:20.575,159
mierchant marines operating within the Commonwealth.
Paassengers: 6
This vessel is constructed from the hull of the now retired FairFie
Cargo:1000 tons
Class corvette, The Royal Navyretined this class of ships nearly S0 years
Name
StreFL
Shid Thrust Wea Creu Wcom Sen Life Arinr
ago,and those that were retircdunderwentatotal refit The results was the
Toledo
50
new.Toledo Class commercial freighter.
DHard Point
This commercially owned and licensed vessel has heavy armor and
2)5/4Liscr4p
shielding available. t is equipped with two missile launching hardpoints
3)5/4 Laser4pis
and rwo smaller lasers for protection, Usually these ships can handle
4y Hard Point
themselves quite wellagainst a lonc Fighter,at least long enough to jump
out.of system if it scems prudent to do so.
The independent merchants of the Cormmonwealth who own these
Vesseis have found them very teliable despite their age.

--- PAGE 78 [OCR] ---
OGGGGL
MILITARYVEHIOLES
COMBATSLEDS
In Centurion, Interceptor.and their supplement books:there are
Originally designed by TOG, sleds were hrought into the Common-
numerous military vehicles described While there are no changes
wcalth by the Renegade Lcgions, Sincc that timc, they have becomea
between Legionnaire and the other Renegade Legion games, these
standard in both militarnics'Mannc gound stnkc forces.
books do have additional features not listed here that may be of value to
The sled is dchually asmall Marshman Gray Drive platform amed
players of LegionnaireiThe following quick conversion rules allow a
witha sinale laser.cinnon.Two Marincs man the pltlom,oneasdnver
Gamemaster and players to imicracl with these vehicles with regard to
and the othcr as gunnerfor the laser.The entire plalform can hover off of
power anid expert systems.
he sound as high as 3 melers when in operation, and has incredibly fast
speeds for quick strikes.
POWERADAPIERS
A sled can be disasscmbled and carriedin six picces,cach Weighing
Every vehicle in use by either ihe TOG or Commonwealth military
enough to slow character's land speed by 2 (unless a bounce pack is also
has extemal udapters for tapping power supplies, The numberof extenal
in use,ncgating the spced differencc).it takes lo minutes to break down
taps on the outside of the vehicle is determined by takinethe mass ofthe
asied,and 15.to nssomble it
ehiele.anddividing by 1o.Novehiclehas more than 20extemal adaplcrs
Driving a conbnt sled feguires Pilot, Ground skill Operating the
on the outside.
forward-mounted laser cannon requires Gunnery. Ground skill.
Using this methodTOo Cestus heavy ground tunkwitha massof
A sled provides limited protection for its gunner and pilot.Aitncks
96,would have9extenal powertups locatedon the outerhull of thetank
against either one should be rolled against the pitor s Agility. If the pilot
ARenegadeLegion Liberaior graynnk would have 20,sinceits mass is
is dcad or unconscicus, the gunner has an Agility of o.Both the pilot and
273and the maximumallowed is20.
gunner receive partial cover modifiers.
All fiehiers and srall craff huve two extemal power taps
The sled ftself can be atlacked. The entire sled has three vehicular
armor points.If it is hit by fire and the cumulative damage is 3or more,
EXPERTSYSIEMS
thc sled is considered inoperable. Hits on the sled by vehicles aulomat-
The followingexpert systens come standardly installed on any TOG
cally destroy it.
The power supply on a combat sled can be tapped, and the sled itself
cr Commoiwealh miliury vehicle Thesc allow a virtually untrained
person lo take controlof a painicular futiction of the vehicle.The GM
can draw powcr from other vehicles:
detemineswhich levcls ot which systemsaravailableon any pirticular
Vehicle.
LORENMARINECOMBATSLED(CW)
Costt
235,000
Max speed:
Level of Svstem Available
50kph
TypeofSystem
Power usc:
3.-2-101
TargerAcousino
Ifor cvery S kilometers
Powerreserver
2.1:01
750
Occupants:
PiarGrownd
3.2.0
2 (driver and gunner)
Ambush
0.1
LOREN3GLASER CANNON
Cost
Tacties
included in sled
Damage (vehicular):
60 (5)
1.00.23
Range:
Short:
Spacecraff maybeoutfittedwithmostoftheseexpertsystems.(They
750 (+2)
Medium:
1500(-)
are never fited with Pilol or Ambush systems.JHowever.an Interceptor
Long.
may only huave 2 of these installed at any given time,while T-Spnce
2000 (-1)
Power per shot:
cupable ships may have all operating simultaneously
10
CREWS
The Loren Class Marine combut sled is the first generation of this
fighting weapon in the CAF. To match the threat of the mounted TOG
All fiehter spacecraft must havea Pilo t may also have a Gunner.
Manne troops,this weapon has been manufactured in laree guantities and
for a total crew size ot2 All Patrol class craftmust have a Pilot.a
is now common throughout the Corps.
Navigator.a Sublight Drive Eneineer ard a FTL Drive Engineer,if
The Loren has something ofa poor repuition, Initial releases ofthis
applicable  Additionally the craf should have. I Cunner for every S
sled proved cumbersome, slow. and subjeci to frequent breakdown.
Wcapons that tt mounis,excluding the S thatthe Pilotnormally controls.
While the current Loren sleds are equal to, if not better their TOG
Finally the crafi can be fiited out to camy passehgcrs.
cqufvalent,they still are cursed by their.fomcr reputaticn.
Ground combat yehicles havea crewof threeConmander.Gunner.
and Driver/Pilot.Personnel carners also have sufficnt room to.camy an
eight min bounce infantry squad.

--- PAGE 79 [OCR] ---
AGGGG
GGGO
STIKESMARINE COMBATSLEDCTOG)
225.000
Max speed:
45 kph
Power use,
Ifor everySkilometers
Powerreserve:
800
Oecupants,
2 (driverandgunner)
Stikes3/6Laser Cannon
Cost
ineluded in sled
Dmmaee(vehicular):
60(5)
Range:
Shont:
800 (+1)
Mediut.
1400(-)
Long:
2400 (-)
Power per shol:
The TOG Marine combat'sled is oaned afier General William K
Stikes of the TOG Marine Corps,a hero of the early campaigns against the
KessRith. This model is an update of the older Hotcher version and will
have.totally.replaced the older,model by6833.
This sled is well rounded and balanced  has a stable fiying pattemn
and tums well, making it popular with Marine cohorts. Its maintenance
can be troublesome, but for the most pant these high speed camouflaged
rncers are popular among the TOG Marine troops.

--- PAGE 80 [OCR] ---
OGGGG
OGGGG
LANCEA
CHEETAH
Cost:
1.890.100
C0S1:2.013.600
Name
StreFl Shld Thrust Wea Crew Weon Sen Life Armr
Name Strc Fi Shid Thrust Wea Crew Wcom Sen
LifeArmr
7.NA4
Lancea
10
Cheeih7NA.
10
43
ys/l Laser  pt
41Hard Point
n/LaserIpt
41EPC93ptS
2)5/lLaserIpt
2)5/1LaserIpl
SHard Point
SyHard Point
3) Hard Point
31EPC9.3pts
Introduced in 6819,the Lancea is TO's standard liehi reconnpis-
The Chcctah is the Renegade Legion's finest bight fighier,a pilot's
sance and mterceptor fighter. Like the Commonwealth's Cheetah, the
dream come trueThe Chcetah has enough firepower lo defeal most
Lnncea's main claim to fame is its speed, In arecon role,the wing lasers
fighters and enouehthnust to run from thosc it cannoiIn the hands of a
arereplacedwithhardpoints andmountedwithaordnanceorsurveillance
skilled pilot a Cheetah can defeat ToG fighters up to twice its mass.
equipment.With tt Gs of acceleration,a high-thrust Lancea ts the one of
Since its introduction in 68is,the Cheetnh has bcen deployed
fastest fighters in the galaxy.
exclusively in a reconnaissance mole.Jumiping into a hostilesystem onan
Like the Cheelah,the Lancea perfomms reconnaissance missions by
escort class ship, the Chcetah will mnke a high-speed pass through a
being carried into a solar system attached to an escont, making a high
system, carrying surveillance equipmcnd in licu of its lasens, rendezvous
specd pass through the system, then rendezvousing with the escont to be
with its mothership, and jump out Most TOG system defense forces do
taken baickloitsbase.
not have fighiers thar can suiccessfully intercept a Chectah using such
The Lancea'slow cost means thatitcan be fomed imlo special Anti-
lactics successfully. and thc few fiehtens that can tthe Lancea nd
reconnaissance Squadrons whose mission is to stop just such tactics..A
Spiculumy,areinfora hard fight.
stripped-down Lancea is perfect for this kind of mission: it can intercept
The Cticetah has Iwo main drawbacks: its paper-thin armor and its
a Cheetah erfectively and fire up to frve missiles at it Such missions are
cost Cbeetah pilots,unlike Penetrutor pilots,dc hotcomplain about lack
infrequcnt, however, and some Squadrons sit for overa year before they
of amor Most feel that armor is used by bad pilots as a crutch to make
getactack ata Cheetah.
up for their mistakes, Chcctah pilots.are also never concemed about the
ToG has used this inactivity in an imaginative way. Because its
cost of their ships,although the citizen who pays taxes is.Ton for ton,a
Lancea reconnaissance pilots operate alone and without direct Squadron
Cheetah is the most cxpensive fighier on cither side ofthc border For
supervision, they need an uncommon mixture of self-discipline and self-
these rcasons, the Cheetah operates in small numbers and almost exclu-
reliance.The"marginally incomigible pllots at night school are assigned
sively in Reconnuissancc Squadrns, Squadrons with high-speed aitack
to Lanceaunits.Thefirstfew toursarealways wih Anti-recon Sguadrons.
ordefencmissionsarenormallyequippedwiththemarginally slowerbut
whre the tiine spent Waiting for a mission can be used to nstill the
more survivablehigh-thrust-modified Penetralor
necessary discipline Afuer the pilot his achicved the necessary mixture
of adherence to.orders and creative thought he Is assiened to a Recon
Squadron. Conscqucnily, anti-recon squadrons have the reputaion of
being the strictestand dullest units in TOG,white thc recon squndrons are
themostflamboyant

--- PAGE 81 [OCR] ---
GGG
SPICULUM
PENETRATOR
Cost:
Cost:
2.773,400
3.018.950
Shld Thnist Wen Crew Wcomn Sen
Name Sire FTt. Shid Thrust Wea Crew Wcon Sen Life Arimr
Name
LifeArimr
143
Peneiratr14NA
Spiculum13 NA.
585
JNPC166PLS
17.5/4Laiser6pts
yHard Point
4EPC145PS
2)NPC166PS
Sy Hard Point
2)7.5/4Lser6pls
S) Hard Point
3y Hard Point
31EPC145PS
The Penctrator. the standard Commonwealth medium fighter, is
cones to mind is the Spiculum. Slcek and deadly looking,the Spiculum
deployed in attackintenception,and reconnaissance sguadrons.Its stan-
is a publicist's dream Any telecast of a bautle has the obligatony shot of
dard weapons mix consists of two NPC 16s mounted high on the upper
a Spiculum flying through the fiery debnis of an exploding Cormon-
wings and two EP l4s camied on thetips ofthelower wings. Though the
wealth ship
unique diainond-shape wing configuration allows the craft excellent
With all of this hype,cynics would automatically assume that the
almospheric maneuverability.ttalsocutsdown rear visibility forthc pilot
Spiulum is a mediocre fighter,but the reverse is tue.The Spiculum has
Inanattackmiskion,thePenctatoris capableofclosing rapidlywith
tremendous acceleration,good defensive systemsgood secondary ama-
Its target aind engaging it at long ringe with NPC fire. This tactic allows
ment, and carries a considerable punch in the fonn of miissiles.The high
the ship to deliver danaging fire to installations and other large targets
spccd, light secondury anmamnenl, and heavy missile load is the resultof
withoul exposine ftself to well-aimed defensive firc.
current TOG tactical doctrine and fighter deplovment
Ground crews can quickly exchange the NPCs for missiles und
install a module compensator. In this configuration, the Penetrator is
capable of 9 Gs of thnust while still carmying an impressive punch
Penetrators such as these are used for interception, reconnaissance, and
other missions requinng a high degree of thrust.
The Penetrator Is a fine all-round fighter, but some pilots ane
concemed about the thmn side armorThoueh well-shielded, the side
amor is capable of absorbing only one hiu fromn most ToG fohters.A
nlid hi in the side from a Pilun Gladius,or Verutum normnally mcans
du "naction of the craft. Because of this weakness most Penetrator pilots
use high-spced,.in-and-out tactics rather than cngaging in protracted.
closc-in dogfiehts.

--- PAGE 82 [OCR] ---
GOGG
GLADIUS
FLUTTERINGPETAL
Cost.
4029.500
Cost:
4.705.000
Name
StreFTL Shld Thrust Wea Crew Wcom Sen.
LifeArmr
NimeStre FTl,Shld Thrust Wea Crew Weom Sen
GladiusZ:NAS
243
Flotienng
DMDC108PIs
6yHard Point
Petal25
NA
243
10
2MDC108PS
7y Hard Point
YMDC85P
6)s/5Laser5ps
3)EPC187p
BiHard Point
2)MDC85PS
7y5/4Laser4pts
4) Hard Poini
9y Hard Point
3)7.5/5Laser7pts
8)5/4 Lascr4pts
Sy Hard Point
417.5/5Lnscr7pts
9y Hard Point
5) 5/5. Laser 5 pts
lo) Hard Polnt
The Gladius is a Two-mian ToG fighier found in many Atack
Squadrons, Its name is derived from the short sword carried by most
The Na'Ctka Moquka or Flutiering Petal, is a KessRith design that
ancient Rornan Legionnaires, following the TOG tradition of naming all
has becomethestandardlwo-mun fiehter forall forces fighting TOG.The
Iwo-min fighters after ancient Romian hand-wielded weapors.
Petal's ghaceful curves and fragile appearance belhie its underlying rug-
The Gladius is a newer desien that was introduced in 6820 Its
gedness and awesome firepower.The Fluntering Petal is deployed in fleet
weapons mix, along with its .acceleration and defensive equipment.
and system-based Attack Squadrons in areas where aciion against strong
fenects cument TOG taclical doctrine,-Alihoueh the Gladius has less
enemy forces is likeby
survivability in combat tha the Commonwealth's Fluttening Petal, it
The Fluttering Petal is a classic product of KessRithian design
philosophy. KessRithians believe that acceleration should be sccondary
sive array of missiles, and has a high acceleration for its weight class.
to strong shielding and amhor.and thit offensive annaments should be
Standard TOG doctrine calls for rotation of crew members withima
exclusively laser-based.The prctotype Pelal had two 7.S/6 lasers in place
Gladius Squadron, so that no pilot nies muluiple missions with the same
ofihe MDC &s,and tiny I.S/ lasersinsteadofthecuenthardpoints.This
Weapons operator. According to the official explunation, this is meant to
wcapons mix resulted in a 4 G acceleration for the ship, The designcrs
spncad cxpertise evenly throughout the Squadron and discourage un-
grudgingly gavein to strong requests from Comnonwelth and Renegade
seemly familiarity belween cnlisted weapons operators and flight off-
Legion military leaders for at least two hard points and the installation of
cers.A rumor has bccn traveling through many borderGladius Sguadrons
the mass drivers Though this final configuration is thc standard.certain
that each Squadron has an IS agenit posing as a weapons opcrator, and
KessRithian units have unoficially converied their ships back to the
that rhe rotation policy was created to give him the opportunity to check
protolypeamament
periodically on the loyalry ofeach pilot The IsS,which nommally refuscs
to discuss its operutions, cmphatically denies that it is conducting sucha
program.

--- PAGE 83 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGL
AGGGGGGOOGGOGGGGGG
CINGULUM
PEGASUS
Cost:16.448.300
Cost:16.580.200
Passengers:2
Passengers:3
Cargo:4.tons
Ca0:101ons
Name StreFll,Shld Thrust Wea Crew Weom Sen, LlfeArmr
Name Strc FiLShld Thrust Wea Crew Weom Sen Life Armr
1574336
7433
124
PeRsus-S0
15
CingulumSo
10
Evens
Odds
Odds
Evens
07.5/5Laser7pls
1)7.5/6Laser8pis
117.5/5LaseT7ps
17.5/6Laser8pts
215/6Laser6pts
2)7.5/6Liser8pls
215/6Laser6ps
2).7.5/6Lascr8pts
3)7.5/6Lascr8pts
3175/6Laser8pts
317.5/6Laser8pts
3)75/6Laser8pts
41MDC-1210PIs
41MDC1210PS
4)5/6Laser6pts
4)5/6Laser6ps
515/4Lascr4pts
S)MDC1210PS
5)5/4Laser4.ps
59MDC1210pts
6)MDC1210PS
6EPC187PS
6MDC1210PIS
6)EPC145PLS
7)NPC2010pIS
7IMDC1210PS
Hard Point
7)NPC166PCS
SHard Point
By Hard Point
The Cingulum is the most common ToG corvette in service. First
The Pegasus is a ncwly commissioncd Commonwealth corvette In
commissioned ovcr 75 ycars ago, the Cingulums are assigned tradition-
addition to typical convoy escort duties Pegasus squadrons patrol unin-
ally to escort small interstellar convoys or toprovide couricr servicc in
habitable systeras within the Commonwenlth's borders-In the last few
borderareas.Openating alone orin pairs,theseships shutileback and forth
years, TOG has been establishing advance supply bases deep within the
endlesslybetweensystems,stopping only longcnoughtorotate crews and
Commonwealth.These bases typicnlly support a squadron of fighters and
nke on supplies. Duty aboard a Cinguhum has been described as long
their mothership.The mothership will jump the squadron into a system.
stretches of boredom punctuated by intense periods of tedium.
allowing the fighters to ambush an incoming or outgoing convoy,and
While the tnajority of Cingulum crews will never firea shot in live
then rendezvous with the mothershipto jumpoutagain,Insteadof miaking
action,some are anfortunate enough to have their ships requisitioned by
a lons joumey back to TOG space,however,the mothership will retum
the ISS or by an Overlord wishing to travel without attracting attcntion.
to the supply basc, so that the fighiers can take on munitions, be tepaired.
Thcsemissionsarenever borinedr safe.
and then go out again quickly for another stnke.
An IsS mission might call for a deep penctration of Comimonwealth
Because there are so few of these bases and so many uninhabitable
systems, it is not feasible to garrison every possible base site: Pairs of
Cineulum 's FTLability,firepowct.andabilitytoabsorbdamagemakeit
Pegasus corveltes ure assigned to patrof a group of stars.which thicy visit
an excellentship forthis tvypeofmission.
on a routinc basis Their high firepower and excellent arnor protection
Foran overlord theTctthatcngulumsaresocommonthrouehout
ensure that'even if they areattacked by two sguadrons.of fighters,they
TOG mcans that he can travel throughout the Empire without atracting
would be able to escape destruction and infom the Commonwealth
attention The Cingulum's durability and firepower also serve it well in
military of the basc s location
ihis tvpe ofmissionnformany a cornupl olficial.mnkinsalastdespcralte
atempt to save himself,has actually atacked an Overlord

--- PAGE 84 [OCR] ---
GGGG
GGOOGGGGGGG
PHARETRA
SOLSTICE
Cost:17.439.000
C05:24.111.950
Pnssengers: 12 (6 pilols.6 technicians)
Passeneers: 12 (6 pilots, 6 technicians)
Flehter Bavs:6(Strc 13 or.less)
Fiehter Bavs:o(Strc 18orless)
Gargo:1oo tons
Cargo:50 tons
Strc Fru Shld Thrust Wea Crew Wcom Sen Life Armr
NameS
Name Strc FTEShldThrust WeaCrew Wcom Sen LifeArmr
112
PhineiraSo3
37
SolsticeSD
6433
5/6Laser6pts
DMDC108ps
215/6Luser6pts
21MDC-108pts
315/6Laser6pls
3yAutomatic Hard Point (lo missiles)
dyAutomatic Hard Poinltlo missilcs)
4) Safeguard-3
The Pharet Is the standard sguadron carrier used throughout the
The Solstice is a Corvelte Class ship assigned to provide FTL
Shannedam CountyIn most cases, the Pharetra Class ships carry only
capabilities to Comimonwealth and Renegade Raiding Sguadrons. The
medium fightens, with other ships carrying the light fighiers. However.
Solsticecamies up to six 175-ton fighters, and prowides limited mainte
some reports indicate that Pharetras are being assigned to carry light
nance and replenishment facilities, These facilities allow the Squadron to
Recdn Squadnons,
fly up to three full scnies before returming to a supply depot or ship.
The Pharetra is not as well-protecied as a standardcorveite. Its armnor
The Solstice is nomally deployed in the same manner as the
Is light defensive weaponry limitcd, and allocatable power cven lower.
Imperial Navy PharetraThe Solstice enters the outeredgesofthesystem,
Moreover.its acceleratlon is slueeish A Pharetra should bea relatively
lannches its fiehters, and then recovers them and jumps out afier the
easykillforanymediumorheavyfightcrsquadron.Tacticaldcployments
fiehters have completed their mission. Defensively, the Solstice has
of the Pharetra can mitigate these problems, however. Maintaining its
poorer protection than the Pharetra, but it can carry heavier fighters and
27.ooo kilomnetcr per hour elocity the Pharctna umps into thc svstem
iis offensive armament is marsinally beter.Recently all of the Solsticc
and then enters a high-speed parabolic orbit aroind the sun. The fighters
class ships havc bccn retrofited with the Safeguard anii-missile system.
are launched for thc mission and then returm tothe carmierwhen thc job is
completedThis lacticmakesitdifficul.ifotimpossible,tointerceptthe
carier Fnendly fighilers must delect the Pharetr calculate its orbit and
then vectorintoan intercepting orbit ata velocitysimilartothe Pharetra
all beforetheenemyfightershavecompletedtheirmission andthecanrier
has recovered thein, Even if the friendhy fighters achieve a successful
intercept the Pharctra can easily avoid destruction by immediaiely
jumpinginto T-space.

--- PAGE 85 [OCR] ---
AGGGGO
LUPIS
NAHTIKALVIPER
C05L:454.900
474.600
NameStre Comdr Shid Thrust Wea
PilWcomSenGunnrArimr
Naime Strc Comdr Shld Thrust Wea
PdWcomSen Gunr Arhr
NahTikal9
Lpis
2)SMLM(2)20PPm
1125mm5pls
125mm5ps
2)SMLM (2)20ppm
3)TVLG(2)H0ppm
4)TVLG(2)10ppm
The Lupis is the standard TOG personnel carrier. Numed after the
she-wolf that nurtured Romulus and Remus, the Lupis design provides
NahTikal ts a Naram word that loosely translates as viper.n The
a high degree of arnor and shield protectiony though its offensive
formal Naram mcaning is more apt in its relation to TO. In the Nanim
amamcnt is lighter than its Commonwealth counter-part.
culture, a NahTikal is a serpent that is sent by providence to kill a tyrant
TheLupis design reflects TOG doctrine.that vicws APCsprimanily
who has a seeiningly-unshakable hold over. the people.
as battlefield taxis uscd to protect their occupants from hostile fire, until
The Viper is the standard Commonwealh and Renegade Legion
the Legionnaires can be brought into range for a decisive atlack. The
amored personnelcaier.Its design is Naram ind reflects Naram combat
transported Lcgionnaires are considered the offensive am of the APc/
docinine. lis primary atinibutes-are its hieh acceleration, good speed and
nfantry team. As a result each Lcgionnnire has his own exit door which
largemissile load.Bycaryinga largenumberofmissiles the vehicle can
allows for rapid debarkcation.Standard tactics call for the Lupis to overfly
be used offensively,unlike its ToG counterpart However the Viper
encmy positions at trce-top level and drop the Legionnaires in a close
sacrifices 6 tons of arinor protection to carry these TVLGs.
One of the most interesting aspecis ofthe Viper's design is its double
TheLupis 25mm gauss.cannon and SML Mmissiles areconsidered
hullThemain chassis of the yehicle issheathcd by a thin shell ofarmor.
defensive in nature, though they might be used to provide limited fire
This shell is briced anywhere from 3o to loOcentimeters away from the
support to the dismounted Legionnaires,
main hull While ihe anmor configuration does not reduce the weight of
the annor,itdoes provide two advantages, First is that the spacing makes
maintenance of extemal sensors casier since the mechanics do not have
to work on them from the inside of a cramped vehicle, Second the outer
shell is configured to provide dismounting legionnaires umbrella-like
protection from shell fragments, Standard tactics.dictale thm the Viper
ground in a crater and the infantry dismount under the shell Once they
have all dismounted the Viper moves on and the infantry rush to their
positions, This tactic allows the infantry to quickhy dismount while
protected and alleviates the need for multiple doors, as on the Lupis.

--- PAGE 86 [OCR] ---
SGGGI
AGGGI
AENEAS
BATA REVO(WOLVERINE)
Co5:861.550
Cost:
824300
Name Sir Comdr Shld Thruist Wea
Pt Wcom Sen GunnrArir
NameStre CoihidrShid Thnisl Wea
 Wcom Sen GunnrArmr
8g3
Acncns
48g
Baa Revol4
43
1.5/4Laser2pts
2)100mm12pts
13.100mm12pts
2YAPL8SCT4PTS
3)TVLG.(4)10ppm
3)TVLG(4)10ppm
4TVLG(2)10ppm
S)TVLG(2)10ppm
The Aeneas is TOG's general purpose Tighi tank. Is high thnust and
low weightallows it to be usedwith greateffectas a planetary raider.The
The Bata Rcvo is naned after a mythological Naram wolf-like
Aeneas camies.a considerable punch inthe fom of its loOmm Gauss
animal who is known for its ferccity when defending fts youngHumans
cannon and coaxially mounted 1.5/4 laser.making the vchicle anexcel-
havetranslated the name as.Wolverine.
lent rtcon or screening vchicle, lis robust weapons and dnive systems
Like the Viper.the Wolverine is a Naram double hull gray cornbat
along with its high-habitability endearihis gav tank tothe crews that are
vehicle.lt is moderatcly well protecled and its loOmm Ghiuss cannon is
assigned to it.
capable of savaging the armor of any opposing vehicle with a few shots.
Thconly wthal the Aeneaspossesses is thal all ofitsweapons are
The Wolverine is a magnificent vehiele for plunetary raids.The AP laser
mounted in the turnet This does allow the tank to usc its full firepower
is very effeciivc against ToG rcar area gamison units, which are com-
against a single target The drawback is that the loss of the tunret fire
prised primarily of infantry. Its large missile load allows it to operate
conirol system tfairly common in modem comban mnkes the Aeneas
without resupply for a considerable time. The Wolverine's low mass
nothing more than a moving target.
allows a largc numberof Wolverinestobe carricd by an assaultship,while
its high acceleration limits the time the assaulring force is exposed to high
altitude defensive fires.
Even with all of these gualities, there are some that feel that the
Wolverine is inferior to its TOG counterpart the Aeneas. The Wolverine
is mirginally Tess well prolectcd than the.Acneas.Italso.mountsan AP
laser instead of i conventional light laser as the Aeneas does. In a short
buiilethe Aeneas hasa tacticad advantagc bccauseitcanutilizethis extra
lascr.while the AP laser on the Wolvcrine is useless. Only after the
Aeneas has expended its TVLGs does the advantage fetum to the
Wolverinewhich curries twice the missile loadMost tacticians feel that
the ouicome ofa batle betweenthesetwo vehicles wll be decided wall
beforethat time

--- PAGE 87 [OCR] ---
GOOGGL
HORATIUS
LIBERATOR
Cost:
Cost:
1.617.700
1.636.350
Name
Pi Weom Sen GunnrArmr
Name
Sire Comdr Shld Thust Wea
SircComdr.Shld ThrslWea
PiWcom Sen GunnrArmr
43
Llbendter 27.
6g6
Horatius27
10 3/6Lascr5pts
2)SMLM(2).20ppm
135/6La5cr6pis
2).150mm15pts
3)50mm7pts
4YAPLaser4pis
350mm7pts
4yVudcan-3
6150mm15pts
5)TVLG(4)10ppm
SyVulcan-2
6)TVLG(4)10ppm
Horatius Cocles was an ancient Roman legionnaire who single
The Liberator is found in all Reneeade,and most Commonwealth
handedly held ofr che Etruscan army atthe Sublician bridge leadine tnto
Legions.Likc allcombat vehicles the Liberator reflects the vanous tmide-
Rome.Horaiius actions saved Ronethat day and tohonor his valor TOG
offsdesigners face among speed,firepower and protection, In the case of
has eiven his name to its newestmcdium Grav tank.
the Liberator the designers gave greater weight to speed and firepower.
The Horatlus ts a superb balance of speed, firepower,and armor
while degrading protection somewhat.
protecticn.The SOmm Gauss cannon localed on the left side of the turret
The combination of a S/6 laser. ISOmm Gauss cannon, and SOmm
isanewdesign.Amajorproblem with smallcaliberGausscannonsisthat
coaxial Gauss cannon in a fully rotating turret makes the Liberator a
without conplex ind weighty cooling sysiems,the barrels will meltafter
dangerous foe in mobile conbat. The protection afforded by the Vulcan
a few tirings. The Horatius mounts a rotating d barrel systcm. which
3.sysicm partially offscts the lower-than-standard shielding, while its
allows the barrel to coolnaturully before bcing uscd to fire again. While
TVLG missile load allows for extended combat operutions.
the rotatine mechanism docs not wcigh or cost less than a conventional
Unlike most tanks, the Liberalor's turret is relatively fragile, espe.
cooling system,this new device simplifies freld maintenance:
cially whcn.compared to the armor protection aforded thehull.This is
Another odd Feature of the Honatius is it secondary infanury digging
due to the use of extemally mounted weapon systems, While extermally
cannons,Rather than evenly firing the digging charges to the left and night
mounting the wcapons gratly eases maintennnce and improves the
of the maln crnler, the Horatius'changes are all thrown to the left side of
habitability ofthe interior of theLiberator.tdoesincreasetheprobability
thecrater.Sincethe Horatius.doesn'tcany infantry.thisabnormality of
cl losing the weuponsto hostile fire.
design wis notcunsidered serious.Once commited tobaitlehoweverthis
quirk did cause confuston,as haif of the disnounted legionnaires taking
up positions around a recently dug Horatius crater couldn't find any
foxholes.

--- PAGE 88 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGOGGL
GGGGGGGGGGGGOGG
This section gives'the rules for playing Legionnaire The first three
and Cybernetic Replacements (p.11l).Andafewoptions tothesenules.
pagestell what Skill Checks are,and howand when tousethem.Themost
including the Mepadeath Luck Saving Roll, are covered on p, lo9.
usual kind of skill check is an Opposed Check.p,98.
Space Travel describes T-Spuce, or.tachyon spaice, then lists the
Conbat begins on page 99, and discusses Initiative, Precmptive
game mechunics of T-Space travel how to do it and how to get lost
Strikes (the way to get a jump on cveryone clse), Movement and
on pages 113 and 114.Detection of other ships, in T-Space and nonmal
Surprise, before it dives into Melee and Ranged Combat, starting on
space, is covered on the next two pages, followed by Fuel consumption
page 1oo.Damage Determination,including theeffects ofarmor andhit
rules and Movement in a Solar System (pp.116-117).
loclution,follow.on p.102.Thelastthnee sections,Cpp.1o4-106)descnbe
Nexi,Yehicle Combat is covered (pp.118-123).This chapler deals
Area Effect Weapons,Zero/Micro-GAction,andafewothersituations
with bothSpace Combat (p.118)and Ground Combat (p,12o-12.A
tn which characters can get hun (Situational Damage).
converslonsystemtointegrateInterceptor/Centurlonto Leglonnalireis
Wounds and Healing tells how to check for Consclousness and
also.given (p.123).
Wound Intensity (p.1o7),as well as how to stabilize patients (Stabili-
The nextchapler (pp.124-125) describes Adventure Polnthow
zation)and get thcm on their feet again immediately (Mobilization) (p
to.et how to use thumand how to improve skills with them.
1osj.Length or Uoconsciousncss is discussed,along with Hlealing and
Finally,Mastering TheGame(pp.126-137)gives the gamemaster
two special ways lo recover from exireme damage-Budding (p, tlo)
rules hints and suggestions on nunning a Legionnaire game.

--- PAGE 89 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGOGGL
AGGGGGGGOOOGGGGG
SKILLCHECKS
Saving rolls and skill checks are the two most-used ways to find out
DEGREESOFSUCCESS AND FAILURE
if achiraciersucceeds in some task.Savne rafls are used when the task
is solely dependent on oneof the character 'saitnbutes.Skl checks are
Gaimemasters mieht want to look at the difference between the roll
used when the task is skil-oriented and regulires the character to exercisc
and target to assess the degree of success or failurc the chonicter had in
one of his aitributes with a skill that he has.
making the roll, While this is not a hard and fast rule,rolling just halfor
cven a quanerof the target mighi be arcason tosupplymore infomation
THENUMBER OFDICE ROLLED
or a better result
Saving rolls and skill checks both have varying levels of difficulty.
Brennus sncceededwith arollthat was nwo-thirds of his targer (12/
Thieisrefectad inthenunberoficn-sided dicethecharactersplayeris
Io).Tn this cae the GM ughtdecide thar he not ontyremermbers the
askedtoroll A1dieroll(oraIDio roll) is fora sinpletask.A2Dt0
fricnd s nane,but healto recalis the friend sfamby owned a store.Had
roll is slighuly moredifficult,and so on In general,most skill checks and
theroll bee madebyhalf(a rallofo in this casejche Gamemastermigh
saving rols are 2Dio rolls.There is no upper limit to the aumber ofdice
haveaddedtheaddresso thestore.Arollofroughlyaqudrterofl8
a player may beasked ioroll,but having more than a 7D10 check is going
could well hawe recalted to Brenuusmunda news story about rhis friend
to be a very rare occurencc.Thc GMcan use the Difficulty Table to help
Aaving been naned a vice counsel toa prestieious firm
judge the number of dice the plaver rolls:
The same technigue can be uscd for missed rolls. The degree of the
DIFFICULTYTABLE
miss can'detemnine how badly a character is hun because of his failure.
Simple.orOpposed
IDI0
For exainple.in a situntionin which only four characters stand a chance
Average
2D10
of geiting hurt such as the random shotgunning of a crowd cach
Challenging
3D10
charactermakcs a savingroll against Luck,and thosefourcharacters who
Difficult
roll the worst with respect to their Luck are hit
Sirenuous
SD10
6D10ormore
Extreme
Wirh Brenmmus'sluck.he dprobabby be hit because rhar save is mlade
against hisLuckf3.Furthermiore.ifBrennsollsa12,haviguissed
The total of the'dice the player rolls is tmportant becausc fi is
by 4 times his farget.the Gapiemaster miehrassume he ts standine ar
comparedwiththeappropnatealiribuiccfora sayingroll-orappropni
grouid zero and assess him increased damage because of ir.
ate attribute plus appropriate skill level (for a skill check)hnt would
SELECTING THE RIGHT ATTRIBUTE(S)
apply.The roll must beless than or equal to the atributeor theattribute
plus skill level for the attenpt to succeed.
Examples of stnight saving rolls incluide dodging vehicles (AG)
Saving roll.Breanrs istryingtorememberthenameofan old school
liffing heavyobjecis (ST.puting someone at ease by giving them abig
chum he hair t seen for years His lO is la and the GM has determined
smile (CHD,racing forwardtosnalch ababy fromthepathofan oticoning
thiswiibeanaveragetask.calung forazD/o roll.Breus ployerros
Grav tank (SP.orsurvivingabrushwiththeSnowPlague(CN.CForCN
d 2 on two dice, which is less than 18,so rheefort is a swccess, The
sayingrolls, the tareer is ofien the cument value of thul alinbule, as
Gamienasterthinking qickiy) mmales p a name and ghes tr fo the
charactcrs in a wcakened condition are less likcly to survive than thosc
player.(With harrollof12,A/thea (atlQ /4wouldatso hae been able
who are intip-top shape.)
rorememher the name of someonle from her pas.]
Theseexamples are of simplesaving rolis.They are made against an
Skill check Althea,nepectedlyforced ou gftonlatothe hillside
atribute without any modifiers, and represcnt the sont of sinuation in
bya particnlarlytharough Llctor searchof her ciny.Esusine her Scaven
which skills and cguipment have litde oc no influence.
ger/Tinker skill to cobble togerher a makeshift crassbow. Since she's
Attimes it'sdifficult to select which atinbuteshould bethebasefor
having to Mse reen woad for the crossbarthe GM decides the taskLs
delemiming a target number.Forexample,should therollbemadeagainst
dificuha Dro roll i reouiredWirh a DX of l6 and level of
Intelligence or Chanismn to sceif a warmior impresses his superiors in
Scaveneer/Tmterskillshestrvingtorollazdrtersodice.Sherolls
batrlez Should the roll bemade against Speed or Aeility whcn ninning a
zeractydndtheGMrulesthatshe ssiicceeded,butshe slarsreitwitl
diffieult obstacle course? Tn both cases cither one works, but averaging
lastporethnaYewshols
them can workeven beiter. To obtain the average,add the aitnbutes
logether and divide by the number of altributes, rounding down.

--- PAGE 90 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGOGOGOGGGGL
SELECTING THE RIGHTSKILL(S)
ForiDiorolls,(whichinclude all attack rolls in combat)thisresults
in a oso chance of instant success or failurea making Legiohnnire
compatible with the Interceptor, Centurion and Levlathan board
Skills can affect the outcome of a saving roll by transforming it into
n skill chcck. A skill check is a saving roll that involves the use of one or
games.
more skills, The level of the skill is added to the target altnbute to
IMPROVINGSKILLS
deteminc the target number.
Brennus and hts couin Ocavius fnds rhesehes tn an awkuard
Anytime a successful skill check is rolled, the character might get
siruanion.Theu grandmother is sowewhar senlle dnd has apparehy
crodit for practicing that skill. If so, a mark is recorded oppoite the skill
forgotienapassword thatwillallow themtoenteracertain portionofthe
on his characicr shect When he has lo murks,he is allowed to mise the
Famly crypr.Breaus has discovered thar her farher wdr buried with a
level of the skill. For  complele explnnation, sce Adventure Points.
halographicmaptha Bres and Octavis mow find they necd.andrhe
UNOUALIFIEDSKILLUSE
pdssword is the onby waythey cai ger in therewithotaterting their wmcle.
the.ewlTacius Ancans
Octavius decides fe mighr be able to trigger her memory j he
Characters occasionally want to use a'skill they don't possess. Ifthe
succeeds t playing a piece on the orgdnic eyboard that her farher sed
character hns theminimum aitribute levelto learn the skillthen the GM
fo play for her when she was a litle girt He s hever seen rhe pleceoy
should alloo the character to make the skill check but add one die to thc
mausic,so the Gamemdster decides plaving ft is a 3Do task.Octaius
roll.
cracks his kuctles anid prepares fo make the roll. His farget is the sum
of Ais Deteriy (/8) and his Special laterest claichord still 3).The
On her way home on day.A/thed comes dcross a worker who has
tolalis2J and this is his targer.The player rolls JDl0 and gers a tolal g
been hitby a peediag Grdr carand left fordead by the road.Aithed hns!
137he rollwar madeby8.
anerp tostabilie thevicnim or he will go trtoshock anddie.Despfre her
lack of formal medicaf trainiag.Althed deterriines fotry.Normally a
It is possible for more than one skill to be brought In on a skill check.
2Do Medhech skin,checkagainst Athea'sTOgf14pls her MedTech
In the aboveexample,ifOctavius had used Disguiseskilltomake himself
skill lewelwonld beaed a thissitarionHowever snceAthca Aasno
look like his grcat-grundfather while he played the piece, the value of his
Medtech skill.she st makea 3D/o svine rol,against Just lO
Disguise skill could hnve been added intothetotal This would have raised
the target and made his margin of victory even grealer. Remember, the
reason Disguise would have pplied in this case is because his goal was
to trigger the memory, not play the piece especially well Had his goal
been to play the piece perfectly, the Disgulse skill would have been
inappropriate for that roll.
Octavius might also want to usc his Research skiti (at level 2) to
discover any mannenisms his great-grandfather had that might be appro-
priate to the situation. The GM is unconvinced that Research is really an
appropriate skill in this case: he won't add two to the target number, but
he might decide that a certain amount of rescirch is possible.If so,he can
givepartial credit" adding I to the target for the Rescarch level of 2.
The Gamicmaster is the Ginal arbiterofthe altributes, skills,and dice
that a situation requires.A shamp player will iry tofocus his task so he can
bring as many skills as possible to bear on the problem-as was done
above by making distinct whii Octavius had as a goal. Gamemasters are
encouraged toreward this sont ofcrealivity by allowing multiple skills to
be uscd in well defined situationscspecially those wbere the character
can plan and prepare.In snap situations, most checks are simple saving
rolls,withat mostone skillapplying.
AUTOMATICSUCCESSAND FAILURE
Any time all dice molled come up I, the altempt automatically
succeeds, regardless of what the targci nurmber was.
On the other hand, any time ll dice rolled coneup io,chealtempt
automatically fails, negardless of wha thc targel number was For those
tasks so easy that failure is abnormal,a 2Di0 roll mightbe required, just
to chcck for automatic failure-he character will succeed unless hc rolls
a lo on both dice.

--- PAGE 91 [OCR] ---
Ir the churaclerdoes nothawethe necessary TQorotherattribute level
Adonisis ossinga taieatBrenns.BrennurhasAGIlandnoskills
tousethesiul.add an additional dieforeach pointlessthan theminimum.
thar help hint dodge.Adonis has D J4 and a whopping o for his Knife
Thesc cxtra dice are on top.of the extra die for.unqualified use of a skill.
Thrownstilfa fotalof20.His tarrer is9(20-1)
Brennlus,on theotherhand,wants tashoo AdanisBrenads has Dx
Alrhed is able to stabllie the workera Wle working on him,she
fs and a Projecrile Firearnus sttof LThatmates his totala I9,Adonis
finds a siall stripofpaper with stranee swwbols on it.Assming that the
hasAG 8 and no skill applicable to dodeine a strean of Ayper-welocily
mcssder an the paper is-wrirten ina code of sope ypc, Ahea tries o
plastic flechetes: Subtracting 8 frow 9 medn Brens munt roll an 11
decode it.Althed does no haw the necessary Cryptography still, mor is
or lest oTDiota hi his targetfRemember.jf herofisa lo,he nutses
her lo Aieh cnough to ledrn that abiipy,but she ganieby tries dnyway.
duomanicalby Both men.a close range.should hitand huutaach other.
Decoding is a TDlo chect fbecausc ir is dn gppased check: sec
(Actualty,there are combal modifiers that apply, but they've bcen
Opposed Checksintheheut section for adefinitian.Tn this case the GM
omitied here to kecp the cxample simple.y
decides thar the opposing total is d2 (ir s a sinaple substution code).
Althea needs to breat into a TOG installationsomerhing she has
Altheaslotalis1.herlQ.7husthetareetnmnberts2,normaliyachanc
done hefore but unbeknownat to her.the base hdd a new alarn system
f success, However tryin fo use a still she doesn'r now adds one die
tnstalled byaseuribyetpen.That ndn slOwasonby2.burhisSecairy
fo therol,and herlOof/ lest thannecessary (Crypographyis an /5
Tech skil was s.sa rheGMdecides 20  thelevelcf the customaystem
sti) addeImiore die.The resur ts thal Althed s plawer mstroll 3dice
thtsmahiaHisTotau2oAthea,HihJO/4andSecurin Tech3has
toeelaresut of 2orless,dn imoossibiliry.Her onty chance is toroll a
a targer walueo/z.When thesecuniry systemstargerof20issuhtracted
Ianall rhreediceforan aufomaticsaccestShedoen rhercAancewas
from her l7 she islef with a fareer of-3,The roll ofthe die comes upd
justonein athousand,soshe just shakes her headandpocketsthepaper.
Z, which doer nor ler her mentralize the seciuriry Jystem. (Had she rolled
a  she would haw eonen pas u
OPPOSEDCHECKS
In this example there are iwo important things to notc. First cvea
though Altheawasnotindirectconflictwith anotherperscn,that person's.
Oppased checks ire contcsts bctwecn characters. They are most
alinbute and skill levels produced His Total.
often rollod during combat, when one charucter is sttacking another.
Second, if Althea Inter uses her Research skil to study the compo-
Other typicalopposed checks include defusing  bomb somcone lse has
nents or the designeror in somc othcr way leuns things about the
seldecoding amessage,unjamming a frequency.anddetecting aforgcry.
systemthe Gamemaster should consider raising her tolal when she
In theexamples orihis chapterso far.mosttargets have becn around
20. That is appropriate, especially for characters like Bremus or.Althea
taickles it again, perhaps by adding her Research skill level The GM
should modify either total whenever it it appropriate to do so. (Deciding.
whodo somany thineswell.Howevcr.combatorothcr.contests,where
for examplc,to penalize a characier's Dx because he's been bathed tn
thetargetisthedifcrencebetweentwochanaciertesulpsinamuchlower
radiation fron areaclorrinning wild lo simulate the cffects of dying on
range of Uurget numbers. Therefore, opposed checks are generally re-
his ability to perfom very finc operations--is quite appropniate.)
solvedwihamollofDio.
Determining whether a situaticn requires an opposed checkis up to
the GM, bur the general rule is that if the character belng acted on isn't
opposingthecheck.lctit beresolvedas asimple skillcheckorsaving roll.
TheexampleofOctaviushisgrundmotherand thekeyboard wasresolved
as a simple skill check. If she hnd beea actively trying not to remember.
it would have requined an opposcd chcck.Althca'sattempt todecode the
messagewas tn opposed check.If che coding chancter had also included
the key with the message, her roll would hnve becn a simple skill check
The urget foran opposed check is figured through a simple formula:
My Total minos His Total tadjusted by applicable modifiersy:
Theacting character s anibuteandallappropriiteskills are added
loeetherto getMyToal
PThe opposing chiracter does the sume with his aitribute and skills
to ger His Total.
The totals are adjusted by any modificrs that apply
-The opposing churacter's result CHis Totaly is subtiacted from the
actingcharacter'sresultCMy Totaly toyield thetargetnumnber.thenumber
lo be rolledagainstusing TDio

--- PAGE 92 [OCR] ---
GOGG
COMBAT
Combat in Legionnnire Is alsofairlysimple.Allcombattakes place
The tollowing actions may be taken by a chiuacter during one
in 1osecondcombutrounds.During cachroundachhraciermaymoveand
combat round:
take any of seveal other actions.Melee conhat can only occur between
Pire orthrowa wcapon
chnicters who start a round within lomelen of cach other.
-Engagcin mclce combat
Nomaiter what kind of combat is takine place.remember this basic
Reload a wcapon
tenet (Atacker's Total  Defender's.Totaly  the targer number. All
-Un-jam a weapon
coinbatisresolvcd as a seriesofopposcdchecks,withthcArtackcr sTotal
-Exchange.or rcady a wapon
cqual to DX plus appropriatc modificrs, while the Defender's Totl Ls
usendcvice
equal to AG plus appropriate modifiers The roll of iDio must be equal
-Take any other simple action (pick up an object,study an opponent
to or lower than thattarget number for the attockerto hit. Aresult of to
or area,stind up.drop down,etc.
mens automntic failure,while a result of I mcans automatic succcss.
Whiletaking any concoftheactionslisted aboveachiractermayalso
move up to his full movement (see Movement).
NATVE
Unless somecone makes a Preemptive Strike. all actions are re-
solved at the sane tima, Tn particular,this mcans thar it doesn't maiter
whether Brennis or Adonis artacks the other first--the resuls of the
At the stirtofanyconbat eoch playershould roll 1Dioand add the:
dainage are not suffered until bodh have a chance to altack.
resul to his character 's Sp: The resulting number is the.character's
initiarie during that conbat ln tbc cnsc ofa tic,thc characierwiih the
PRE-EMPTIVESTRIKES
lower SP has the lower initiative, CThc GM will probably want to note
down each character's initintive, in order, inchuding his own non-player
characters (NPcs)in the list)
A preemptfve strikte is an attempt by a character in combat to keep
The following procedure is then cafled out in each round ofcombat.
another characler from doingwhat he wanis to do, When a character
Starting with the characier with the lowest initiative,each plaverdeclares
declares his acton, anyone eise who hasn't yet acted has a chance to step
his chiracter'sactions for that round Chanctcrs who arc suprised take
inandprcempthisactionblockingwbatchelower-ioitiatvecharacter
no actions in the first combat round (sce Surprise).
is urying to do. (lf the lower-initiative character has to make a roll lo see
if hisdeclared action is successfulotherchanacters can'twaitto see ifhe
succceds before deciding whcther to pre-enipl him.) The"stnker"de-
ciares his utiempt andmnkes a Dioopposed chcck againstthe difference
between the two initiotives, If he succeeds, hus action is immediately
resolved, before the action of the lower-initiative character he just pre-
empted If he fails,his AG is cot in hnir Cnound down) for the rest of the
round,and he takes his tum in its regular orderCHe cannot autempt two
preempts in one round) Remember that a I is always n success and a 10
Balwaysafallune.
More thanonecharactermaydeclarea preemptive stnkeat onetime
Both may be trying to prcempt the same character, or one may be trying
to preempla pncempter,kecping a sccond charicter from interfering wih
a first character. In all cases, tho resolution is the samc Thc hiehest-
initiative chtndcter rolls his 1Dio stnke furst I hesuccceds, his action is
resolved Then the chnracler with the next highest initiative rolis his
stnke and so.cn. If a characicr is successfully precmpied, and the pre-
emptive strike prevents his declared action, he can do nothing else that
round
A character can'twaitto see if anothcr preemptis successful before
he decides to act, Ir he is doing that. he is waiching the action,rather than
acting.andhecantstepinwithadelayedpreempt.cHecan,ofcourse.still
tryto preempt sonieoneetsein theound.)
f soncone successfully preeinpts a character who has declared he
is moving, thil chardcter still gets a defensive modifier for being in
motion,unless the GM nules otherwise.

--- PAGE 93 [OCR] ---
GGGGGOGGGGGGGGOGL
AGGGGGGGOGOGGGGGG
Athea is being chased by three TOG guards.They all hawe laser
pistols,and she's tying to jump through a window to escape them.
MOVEVSNTRATES
Speed
Walk
Sprint
Run
A/thea s inirianive is19SP/7.plus a dierofl of2,The three gidrds
Crawl
fActan,BartonandCantonJhaveIninatiwsof8./9and23.respectiwly
Acten,wfththe lowestnitiarve.goesfirsthefiresa shof orAlthed She
declares a preempriwe smike. Savne she Wants to Juntp throueh the
Window beore he can re.Her irttiarive punus his is J rlg  Sl
Unfortunateby.sherollsa fo,automiaricaliv faiting.HerAGis cutin half
fortheresrofrheround,dndActon will gerisshorof asshedivesthrough
the window.(Renmember thar.all acrions are.esoved simmltaneosfy
Mniess there is asnccessu preemptive srikej
10
10
She saril trying to jump throgh the window, since that s the action
she declared while frying to preenpr Acton. Borh Barton and Canton
12
declare pre-emptive strikes, fThey really don'n wanr her to escape
13
13
through thar window.J Canton s preempt ts resofved frst. since his
14
14
Faunatheshieherthan BartonsHeutrolla4orlesszs-9jHe
15
15
does,andgets his shof of.grazing her.Wirh asuccessfal strike,Cantan s
16
16
shor hir her befare she gor tothe windou, but since rhar wasn'fenough ta
hring her down, she coninues.
18
18
Ir's Barton shurnnouEven thoughthe diference berween Barlm
19
19
10
andArhea's ininidrives Is Fero, ifhecan roll a I if will wort Hedoesn t
20
20
10
Soshe strough the wtndawAeton dnd Barton wtll fire aithe samerime
sheeocsthrouehthewindowsinceallachon smuianeousndessthere
MELEEHIT DETERMINATION
SURPRISE
Melee conbat includes ny combal using handhield mclec wcapons.
claws,open fists orotherparts of thebody Martial arts areinchuded in this
Under most combat conditions both sides are aware of each other.
definition, and any combal involving martial arts should be treated as
However,it is possible for one or more characters to be suprised,ff a
nonmnl mclec combat. if a ranged weapon is used as a club,that attack is
characicr is surpnsedhc.may not atiack or.performany oher.action
resolved as melae.combat.
dunng the firstround ol conbut,and his Agibityishalved Torthatround
Deterinining who gcts hit by whar for how much damage follows a
(round downy In extneme cases where somcone is taken comipletely
two-step process h dererminatio and darnage deterwinanon. Hit
unwares,or ls rcsiraincd in some manner.so that he cannol move for
detemination involves figuring out the target nuniber for the atacker 's
example, siting in the gunner seatof a Marinc Assaulr Suppont Liscr
opposed chcck,and making thatroll to seeif he hits.
Cannony,the GM can reduce his Agility to zero.
FirstfiguretheAutacker'sTotal:his Dx+hisopplicahleskil levels
MOVEMENT
+his weapon's offensive modifiers.
-Next,the Defender's Total: his AG + his applicable skill leveis +his
Duririg combat  chancter can sprint, run, walk, crawt Cif he is
Weupon 's defensive modifier.
The Defender s Total is then subtracted from thc Alincker 's Tolal
prone), or stand still, in addition to perfoming any other one action, He
to get a target number To hit the attacker must roll this numbcr or less
can combine his movementand action in any manner that he wishes, For
on lDio.Agnin,a rollof to isan automiticmiss anda roll of d is an
exanple,he mey drop prone and crawl, or firc his weapon and nun, or
automatic hit.
sprint and ready a TVLG launcher.
The levels of the conbat skill a character is usine can modify either
Acharacter may cover a numberof meters equal to his Land Speed
hisAitacker's Totalorhis Defender s Tolal,butnotboth atthc sanctimne.
in a combat round if he is spninting. He may cover half that distance if
Inanyround,a levelmay beapplied totheatack ortoall defenses,Levels
running,a quarier of that if walking.and one-tenth that if cnwling.
maybesplitacharacterwith Bladeskill:3can splitit2and1modifying
Movencnt reduces both a character s chance ofhiiting aod being hit with
hls Ailacker's Tolal by +2 and all ofhismelee combatDefenders Tolals
ringed weapon fire, See Ranged Weapon Combat for more details.
by+1.A characterdoesn'thave to decide how he willapply his levelsuntil
While not necessary, using a map to regulate movement during
he.attacks or is attacked thnl rouid
combat is sometimes handy.In this casea hex grid mapwith a scale of
I hex to I meter is recormmended.
Any mclee weapon can have both an offensive and defensive
modifier, The offensive modifier can only be added to the Aticker's
Total the defensive modifier can only be added to the Defender's Total
(and only when hc is defending against a mclee artack).

--- PAGE 94 [OCR] ---
GGOGG
GGOGGOGGGGI
AGGGGGGGOGGGGGGGGG
Brennns is ivohed in a horing miarch af the academy, His har Dx
Note if the weapon is touching the target. the target ntinber is 1o.
Ioand his BrawingiPugihsm skill is Heelectsfouse his Browline!
onlya10 on1D10isamiss.
Pvgilesm lerel oeruwely tn rais Found.sofrisadded tohisDexteriry for
an Arfdcer 's Totaf of l9, fBecanse he s using his fists, he gets no
RANGFDWEAPONMODIFIERS
ofensive weapo modfer.!
The following modificrs apply only to ranged wetpon combat.
Brennus opponent ts Cals. Caius AG Il,added to a Brawling/
Pugilismskillofiseddefensvehythisroundshes himaDefenders
Modiners of Atlacker's Total
Modifier
Total of 12(AswithBrenls,Cains gets ho weapon modijicrwhen Msing
Range mcdihier
Depends on wcapon
his hannds.1
(sce Equipment)
Finally.the DefenderTotalfs subiructed frowttheAtiactersToral
Atacker'smovement
fodeterminethetareetnmberBremarncedstorollInrhis caseits/9
Walking
-12Z.Brennsmustrolla 7orlesson/D/0toArAisfoeinthts/0
Running
Jecond bursl of bonng fury. Brenus rolls a a hit wiuh ary target
Sprinting
-10
Automatic-hre
-5 per additional burst
Nore thar Calus used hir still level fo aiate himteff more dificault lo
2nd burst is-5.
hir. while Brenaus vsed his to tmprove his aftack.
3ndis-10.4th15-15)
Caiar also sines-ar Brcnus. Caius Aas Dx loaid can tuse his
Brdwing/Puilism shill level,sohis Anacker rTotalislo.Brenus hs
Modifiers of Defender's Total
Modifler
AG f and has also used his sAll lewel.so Aistotal Ln'rmodified either.
Defcndersmovement
To-//--/,whichmeansCatuschanceafhiting Brennus is/inlo(only
Walking
dn autoiatic hit worts Caiar rolls a 7 and musses.
Defender pronc or crawling
Running or sprinting
MARTIALARTS
Defender's size
Martial Aris are the exccption to the rule about how levels are
Smallest (locmdiameteror less)
10
assigned. Lcvels in a Martial Arts skill can be uscd both offensively and
Smaller(11to 30 cm.diameter)
defensively at the same timc.A character with Martial Arts, Blade skill.
Small.c31toSocm.
3 can modify his Alacker's Total by +3 and all of his melee combat
Medium (52cm to4.metersIcharacters1) 0
Defender's Totalsby +3.However.a character with both Blade skill and
Largc (5 meters or more [vehicles))
Manlal Arts, Blade skill cannot in any way combine the levels of both
Defender'scover
1.1o15+
skills, nor can he use one skill on offense and thc other on defense.
exaniples:
ManialArtsalsoallowsadditionalaltacksinarouind:amarialartist
tallgrasses
can mnke as many altacks as he has skill levels in dhe weapon he is using
bushes,thin plastic
Obviuosly, Mantal Arts skills are much more effective than the related
thick wooden walls
10
regularcombatskills,butthey requireamuchhigher Intelligenceto leam
concreteconstructon foam
15
them.
Paial
Night shootng
PULLING A PUNCH
Any character using a blunt melee weapon (e.g.. fists, clubs, saps.
stun batons, ctc.) may pull his punch. If he declares that he is doing so
COVER
before he stnkes,then he cannot drop his opponent's CN below o.At CN
When firing at a character who is partially hiding his body behind
O, the opponent is probably knocked out, but he can't die from the stnke.
some form of cover.the attacking player may electto fire through the
cover or fire at the exposed portion If thc targct Is the exposed portion of
RANGED HIT DETERMINATION
the target, uise the partial cover modifier, Otherwise, use the appropriate
cover modiller.
Ranged weapon combar includes any attack with a thrown or fired
Weapon. The character must be able to'see his thrget (unless his weapon's
ALUTOMATGFIRE
descniption specifically states it is capable of indirect fire and his weapon
Unless otherwisenoted in the cquipncntsection.all powered ranged
must have sufficient range lo rcach thc target.
Weapons (ie, those which don't rely oh muscle to propel them) are
Ranged weapon hit detemination is nearly identical to melee hit
capable of both scmi-automatic and automaic fire. When using semi-
detemination lt differs in these respects.
automatic fire,only one target in a combat round can be fired at and only
-Aitacker'sTotal-The offensivemodifierformost ranged weapons
one round of ammunition and/or power is expended, When using auto-
depends on the distance (ranee) between attncker and defender. (Short-
matic fire, up to 4 bursts can be fired und up to four different targcts cin
tange thrown weapcns have only one modifier,which applies throughcut
be cngaged in a single combat round, as long as all of the targets are in
front of the altacker, 3 rounds ofammunition and/or power per burst are
their entire range.J Other modifiers may apply, see Ranged Weapon
Modifiers.
expended when using nutomatic fine. When fining in automatic mode.
-Defender's Total No skills or weapon modifiers adjust this total.
each subsegucnt burst in a round subtricts S from the Attacker s Total.
However, other factors, including movement and cover, can affect this
The first burst doesn t reduce the Antacker s Total The second burst
total Sce Ranged Weapon Modifiers.
reduces it by 5, the third by lo, and the fourth by 15.

--- PAGE 95 [OCR] ---
GOOGGGGGGGGGGGOGGL
Eventhouh ther are three rounds in a burst,the damage fora burst
If Brenunur rofls a fowhile firing the first burst ar the Second
is the'same as the damagc fora round: assume only one round in three hits
Renegade,hehds foraliaeaut hisLuck.Brenpts Aasrhehewaolefast
for any given burst.
cf rolling.agairust LK 3.He rolis a ous spikergle is Jamhhed,dnd he
cn'fire his.third birst.
Brennus,on guard dury ar the dcademy,sees two Renegade aents
Thenercobairound,Breusfraical/yatrenpts tocledr the Jam
snedking on to the academy grounids through the umderbrish, They re
fn hswedpo. BrehnsloisIsand hisProiechleFireormustilsLso
walling about SOmieters tafrontof his posirion.Brets declides o spvay
that gives him a /9. He should beable to clear theweapan on arything
theunderbrtrhwirhthreeburstofautoratercTheicsburstisaimed
orher thana 20.Hemolira 7dd Mn-japtsi
ar the ledd Rericgade and the second and third bursts at the one raidng
behind The GM decides thar the Reneeader will be faken by surprise.
DAMAGE DETERMINATION
Targer LBremanswih Dx Taand ProjecnleFirears.IA
this range his spike rjne'y range modijfier is +2.No dutomtic fire
Dainage determination for a hit includes figuring where a hit lands
modiferisadded fortheursr burst sothe Atacker Total is2l.Forthe
and how much danage ft does, The amount of damagc can be affected
defender,his modinicaniou are +3forthe igt coverand+2 becauise hes
both by hit location and amor Cee belowy, Once the final amount of
Wovine arawalkfora toalo5.His normal Agiliyis/S,buf since he
damage has been calculated.t s subtracted from dhe chiracter's CN.The
is surprised,i is cut this Fond ro a Z herefore the Defender s total ts
wouind'slocation and sevenity should benoted on his charicter shee The
127+3+21BreMsHthrhimona9orless.
wound might cause him to fall unconscious for more detalls, see
Targer 2:Starr with the same totalof 1 for Brenrs.then subiracr
Wodnds and Healing.
5 for the second burst, Riving Brennis a mew total of I4.The same
All weapons have i damage number listed for them, This is how
modjfers dpply to rhe serond defender's toval, but rhis farget has an
much base damage they do, The damagc listing for.muscle-powered
Agiliry of 12which ts hahed to o.giving himt a fotalof T1. The farset
weapons has the added notation "+sD,"meaning that the attacker's
nmher is 3for the second burst.This second shor s by Ao meaaus easy.
Strengrh Daitge (SD) is addcd to the listed number.Strength Damage is
Therhirdbursr isewenWasewithanAuacker s Totalof9i9-S-SJ.Ths
a chanacter's Strength/o,rounded down. Fircammns used as clubs have no
miaker thethird targernumber-2Thedierols area I or the frsttarget.
Off/Defmodifiersand cause2+SDdamnge
then an S and a o on the secorid targer The first Renegade fs hur, but
Brenns musve the second one tn tha fmirial rowtd.
Brens,with.ST13,hasSD2.Athea.wthST1O.hasSDUsing
a dareer.withdange/tSD,Breuurwoulddo3points ofdamageand
AMMUNITION AND POWER
Alrhedwoulddo2
All firearms require either ammunition powcr or both, Semi-
autonatic fire cxpcnds one round of ammunition pertum Automatic fre
AIMED HITLOCATION
expends three rounds of ammunition per burst If a weapon does not have
If a character has been hit by an aimed sho, roll 2Di0 on the Aimed
3 rounds of ammunition remaining,it cannot finea burst.Thus a weapon
Hit Locatlon Table to determine where the shot landed Note that the
with 7 counds remaining can fire 2 bursts, but not a third.
damage can be increascd by hiuting vital areas of dhe anatomy.Hits to the
Many wenpocs eapend power uniis when firing."Power per shot"is
hcad do tripie damage, while hits to the upper torso do double damage.
bascd on semi-aulomatic firewith automatie fire thal rale is tripled for
The nttucker may add or suboract his skill level in the weapon that he
each burst. Thus, if a weapon uses 4 power units pcr shot, and it fires 4
used in order tomodity his roll and hit a more vital area,For example,a
bursis, a total of 48 power units are expended (4 power units per shot x 3
hitlocation rollof S an upper left limbhit,modified by3levelsof skill
shols pcrburstx 4bursts).As with ammunition.ifa weapon doesn t have
can adjust theroll to a 2 (a head hit, for triple damage),
sulficient power to fire a burst, it may aol do so.
WEAPONFAILURES
AIMED HITLOCATIONTABLE
Ifa lo is rolledduring hitdetermination a rangcd combat altack ci.e,
Roll
Effect
if thehitroll ts an automatic missa 1Dio saving rollaghinst Luck must
Head (uriple damage)
bemade to see ifthe wcapon jammed orthe bow stringbroke,ctc-).If the
34
Upper torso (double damage)
toll fails, thenthe weapon is jammed and cannot be used until it is cleared.
5.6
Upper left limb(s)
If the weapon jammed while firing multiple bursts, subscquent bursts
7-8
Lower leftLimb(s)
cannot be fired.
E1-6
Lowertorso
Allempting to un-jam the weapon takes one action ind reguires a
14-15
Lowernight limb(s)
2Dio skiti check against IQ and the weapon skill. Un-jamiming a gun
16-17
Upper nght limb(s)
expends one round's worth of ammunition and/or power, If the un-
18-19
Uppertorso (doubledamage)
jamming roll fails, the weapon is broken and will requlre Repair Tech.
20
Head (triple damage)
Small Equipment skill (along with suitable equipnoenny to fix it

--- PAGE 96 [OCR] ---
GGGOOG
GGGG
Note that sone pieces of amor protect only parts ofthe body.while
others protect the entire body, Use only the AF of the ammor protecting the
area hit.Amor factors ure notcumulative. Wearing AF 6 amor over Cor
undery AF 2 armor means that the AF 2 annor doesn't affect damaee.
Similarly.natural body anmor (a KessRith's AF 2 hide comes to mind)
doesn tadd tootheranmor.Ifa KessRith is wearingamor,only oneof ithe
two AF's cain be used to reduce damage.
In the exaplebelow.Brerpur hirrhefirstRenceddewithashorfron
a sptke rine The hit location die roll ts Iz which, when modifed by
Brenns Projecnile Finearms.Jbecomes an I8an uppertorso hit.The
Wedpon does 24 pointe af danagc: wirh double damage Cor an upper
forso hi),the Renegade takes 48.Honever,the Renegade is wearing an
armored jacker under his coveralls, which has.A 4, so the damdeeis
redaucedto12(48/41.7hecloudofballtsticplaricxpikesripintohischest:
some are furned by the arrmor, bwt nof enough
ARMORAND ENCUMBRANCE
Heavier arnor encumnbers the limbs that it protects, due to bulk.
weight,and size,Amorwithan AFof6or12reduces a charncter's ability
to move the protected limb, CNeither head ncr torso armor encumbers a
characterj Heavy amor on any upper limb reduces a chanacler's DX and
ST, Heavy unmor on any lower limb reduces a characier s AG and Land
SP. AF 6 reduces the affected attnbutes by 2. AF 12 reduces the alfected
aitnbutes by 4.
This penalty is applied even if justone of several limbs is protected
by AF 6or L2 However theeffectisntcumulative.Tfone leg has AF6
annor.and the other has AF 12 armor, ondy the worst modifier C-4 forthe
AF12amorapplies:
Some skills have minimum DX and/or AG rcquirements,The only
ARMOR
thing this reduction in atiributes docs morfffect is theability toknow such
Annor is as useful in the G9th century as it was in previous eras.
askilllfacharaclerwithDX 13has SlelehtofHand1and iswcaringAF
Ships, fighters and tanks all have ammor-and powered shield Shield
6 arnguards,hisDX foranySieightofHand skill checks is ll.Nonmally
geterators nequiretoo much power fora personal shield to be a practical
DX11Istoolow to know Sleighitof Hand min.DX 13),butthe character
possibility, so personal body amor is all that stands berween miost
doesn't hnwe to add  dice for having a Dx thart's too low, On the other
characicrs and the.dreadful weapons they Face in coinbat. Each kind of
hand if he didn't know Sleight of Hand, and were tnying to use it
amorhas bcen assigned one of five possiblearmor fariars 2,3,4, 6,or
12 The amor fielor CAF is uscd to detenninc how much damagea
unqualified (see Unqualified Skin Use,he woald huve to add 2 dice to
his roll for having too low a DX. In this and tn allothercases his effective
character sammor absorbs
DX is11.
Ifa hit staikes an area prolected by amor,thehit's diinage is divided
bytheAFofthatarmnorCrounddownyTheArinorFactor Tableprovides
TARGETNUMBERSLESS THANO
the results for mosr attacks,Cross-refenence the hit's damage by the
lirmor's AF to find how much damagc penetrates the anor.
A hit with a final target number underOdoes less damage dun a hit
whose anget numbcr is Oor more.
Forevery three points less thin zero, increase thc AF of thetargetby
one step For example, a hit with a larget number of -l against an
MORFACTORTABLE
Damage Done By Weapon
unanmored characicr rcsults in thatcharacterreceiving the benefits of AF
2. A hit with a larget number of 4 against the samc characier means he
inereases his anmortating by two steps.getting the benefitcf AF 3,If the
18
30
character is alrcady wcaring protective clothing with an arnor factor of
20
3,then he wouldget thebenefitof wcaring AP4 Cagainstthefirst hioand
AP 6 Cagainst the second Note tliat the AF for any character cannotbe
10
imcrensedpust 24.

--- PAGE 97 [OCR] ---
GGGG
AREAEFFECTWEAPONS
SCATTER OF FIRED WEAPONS
Area effect weapons dhat are fired use more accurale delivery
systems than an am When firing an area effect weapon, make a IDto
Area effect weapons, such as grenades and morturs, are usually not
attnck roll as with any other fired weapcn. Apply any appropriate
fired at any oneindividual, but ratherala point The weapon then explodes
offensive or defensive modifiers, as descnbed for thrown objecis.
and can wound anvonein its blast radius
If theweapon misses,italsowill scatieras perthethrown weapon
diagram, however, the distance roll is divided by 2 (rounding up).
SATTEROFTHROWNOBIEOIS
Acharacterthrowing agrenadeorotherobject makes a 2Dio saving
PAINTINGLASERSANDINDIRECTFIRE
roll aeainst DX,with an extra die added for every.O.melers (or ponion
A painiing laser has two components:the laser itself,and a comm
thereof) past the first 20 mielers that he wants to throw it. (21-30 meters.
unit A painting laser does no damage it is used to designate targets for
then calls for a 3Dio check against DX,cic.) The GM should subiract
mortar and other fire, When it strikes a shield it can read thc nicker rate
appropniate Defensive Modifiers based on the trajectory of the grenade.
and transnit that infommation ao other nits, effectively negating the
Forexample,ifthe grendeis supposedtobreak through a closed window,
shleld'smodifier for other lmmediate unacks agninst the vehicle.Afner
subtract 3 for cover (the glass) and 3 for thc medium-size window. If the
a few scconds the tnrgeled vehiclewill have percaved the painting and
grenade is supposed to land near the feet of a running target subtrnct S
adjusted Its flicker rate, so painting only nullifies the shield modifier
because the thrower has lo track the movement of the runner. If the roll
during the round of painting)
is mide, the grenaide lands where iniended.
To designate a turget for another weapon's fire, simply make the
If the roll fails,the grenade doesn't land where intendedit scatters.
atack as normalIfthe painting is successful,attacks by.mortars and other
Roll 1Dl0 (using the diagran below) for direction and another TDio for
indirect fire units can be made
how many meters it scalters.An object thrown off-targetwill not scaltcr
through awall or other solid object. If the scatter roll sends it toa bamier.
it ends up at the base of the burmier.
Directlon
of throm

--- PAGE 98 [OCR] ---
AOGGG
To designate a vehicle, the Antacker's total is computed nonitally.
using his Dx,Laser Fireanms skill and any appropriate modifiers, The
RANDOM HITLOCATIONTABLE
Defender's total equals the Pilot's AG and Pilotskill,the vehicle's Shield
Rol
Location
Boxes, the Large targe modifier of-S,and any other appropnate defen-
Head (tripledamage)
34
sive modifers, Success means that the vehicle can notuse its shield boxes
Uppercight limb(s)
in any other attacks that round and that it can be hit with indirect fire.
5-8
Upper torso'(double damage)
9-10
Use of the painting laser precludes the use of the weapon on'which
Lower rieht limb(s)
it is mounted.
Upper left limb(s)
12-13
Lowerle limhrs
EXPLOSIVE DAMAGE
14-17
Lower lorso
Once ground zero has been detemnined, the device explodes- All
18-19
Upper iehr limb(s)
grenades and other explosives have figures listed for "Dannge" and
20
Head (triple damage)
"Offenisive Modifier." The Damage number is always a multiple of the
Offensive Modifier.The Dexterity of the explosion at ground zero is the
ZERO/MIGRO-GACTION
Offensive Modifier,Ground zero extends for l meter around the point of
Impact. Over the next meter out, Dx is reduced by one, and further
Combat in zero or micro gravity is difficult at best, With a liule
redoced by.onc.over cach additional meler..Thus, o mctens from.the
specinlized uraining most characters canfunction in a zero-g cnvironment
explosion, its DX has been reduced by 9.
Damage isreduced in proportion to cheOffensive Modifier.Damage
without mishap. However, combat operations in zero-G is something
is reduced by the ratio.of Damagc/olfensive modifier for evcry mcler
periormed only by trained experts.
If thecharacters ane involved in combat in a zero.G environment the
away from ground zero.Forexample,an Archbar anti-persoinel grenade
has a 9o/15=6 reduction per meler.Between four and fivemeters.away
following rules should be used
fromthepointof impact,an Archbarantacks with a DX of 11't1S-4).for
ZEROGSKILLOHEGKS
66 points.ofdamagec90-24).
Anyone who wants to move, antack or take some other action inust
Anyone within 3 meters of a grenade may throw hinmisclf on it The
character will take double the normal damage, with amor (either upper
first mnke a 2Dlo Zero-G Operations skill check based on Aeility.If he
or lower torso amnorqhe chanacter's choicey reducing the damege as
wantstobothmoveandtake some otheraction,hcmust firstmakea3Di0
skill check. In combut, this check must be made pnor to each round's
normal. However,the explosion causcs no other damage.
When someone altempts to grab a grenade and toss it back consult
action.
Characters without Zero-G Operationis skill must make an unquali-
Megadeath Luck Saving Rolls
fied skill check.which adds al least one die to the roll plus one more die
During a parade formation to honor Brennus for his acnons againcr
forench point they are away from the skill's minimum rcquircments ClQ
the Reneeade infiltrafors,dnother Renceade agenf fosres d grenade into
8and DX 10y.
d pacted formarion of cdders.The Reneeade agenr has Dx /2 and he is
Characters with Manial Arts,Zero-G Operalions skill may use thal
throwing the grenade25 meters.making ta 3D/0rollThe rol ts 17
skill level in place of the nonmal Zero-G Operations skill level unless they
hemiissed.Herolls a Z forthe directionofscateranda3 forthedistance.
are atiempting to fire a weapon (for which Martial Aris doesn't prepare
The grenade lands 3 meters short of the intended pointdr the rear rgnk
them).
of rhe formanion, rather than in its exacr cener, The grendde cxplodes
Fuiling this skill check mmeans that the churacter automatically fails
with a DX of5and aforce oyoOagainustall of the cddets within L peeter.
in his declared action ind (unless hcwas surapped down in sone manner)
I4 dnd 84 against rhe cadets behween / and 2 meters aoy./3 and 78
he gocs fioating off. Use the scarter rules from Area Effect Weapons to
beeen2and3meters.andsoon.(Ofcovrse.mastofthecadersinfuriher
determine the direction and length of his drift If tie character was just
ranksgerincreasiaelybcllercovermadersforthcbodiesbeheen them.
moving,use his intended destination as the starting point for his drife if
and the explosion The caders are surprised by rhisaction so all o rheir
the characier was taking aay other action,use the direction in which he is
Agiliniesarecurin haWhiletheReneeadeinilmator iskilledartempting
facing as the "l-3" direction on the dingnam.
fo escpe.theacadcmy hs fostsovmc very waluable caders.
Acharacler who is not moving and is firing a lascr weapon does not
need to make a zero G check since a laser weapon produces no recoil
RANDOMHITLOCATION
Persons who fail thelr Zero-G skill teu spend the next round re-
When an altackis made which can'i be aimed roll 2Dio on the
orienting themsclves,They cannot perfonm any other actions dhiat round,
Random Hit Location Table Unalined aitacks include explosions and
and their Agility is cut in half tround downj for any defensive punposes
other area effect weapon fire, Also use this tuble for situational damagc
No sdill check is nccessary for a character to re-oricnt himself.
which reguires a specific hit location, as when falline This table is
identical to the one uscd for Previous njuries duning character design.
ZERO-GMOVEMENT
Rolls on this table can't be adjusted lo achieve a more desirable location.
Movement in zero-G is accomplished in one of two ways. The first
CThe difference between this table and the Aimcd Hit Locatlon
is self-propulsion using one's ams and legs to push off of the walls and
Table is that this table is more balancedThe Aimed table is wcighted
float in the night direction, The sccond is to usc equipment which is
toward the less vital areas of the body,so that skill is usually required.to
hit a vuinerable area when using it.)
who are moving in zero-G are considered to be nunning for the purpose
of combat modifiers.

--- PAGE 99 [OCR] ---
GGGGG
Characters using Zero-G Motive Equipmcntcan moveno fasterthan
TOXICATMOSPHERES
12 meters per round However, no Zero-G Opertions skill check is re
Exposureto toxic atnospheres fchlorine.arimonta,etc.)has similar
quired if a character.only moves and takes no other action. For defensive
elfects to drowning except that dic darnagc donc per round is aoonally
purposcs, the characler's Agility is reduced by.S.
higher (S to 12 points) The highcr ate of damnge is because the
Whcn using hunds and feel achnracher cnny traveluptohis Strengith
atmosphere is physicallydamagingthe victim's lungs as well as depriving
in meters during acombat round It is assumed that he ends his movement
his body of oxygen, A chunicter can still avoid damage by hoiding his
on sometype of solid ground:however,hecan choosetocontinuedrifting
breath as per the Drowning nules Amor can't educe this.damage
at his cunrent speed and direction without stopping.Moving by hands and
(aithough a suit scaled to the aimosphere can prevent it).
feetallowsacharactertouse hisfull Aellityfordefense,buta Zero-G skill
testmust be made al the beginning of each round When using just hands
EXPOSURETOVACUUM
and feetall Zero-G moveinent Isstraight limeonlyHowevcrthe oMmay
If the character is exposed toa vacuum,hetakes to points ofdimage
allowa chiracter to change direction by bouncing off of a wall,For each
per round Amor does not reduce this damage (although a suit sealed
anticipated change in direction,add n die to the character's Zero-G skill
against vacuum can preventity, Holding one's breath does no good in this
lest Tor that round.
situation All pans of the character s body are affected each limb takes
L point, while the head and both halwes of the torso take 2 points aplece.
SITUATIONALDAMAGE
Note that most space sand environmental suiis issued to military
personnel have self-scaling abilities, They can seal off a breached area
In addition to damnge received during combat,characters can gei
(left upper limb, upper torso, etc), while keeping the rest of the suit
hurt in anunberofother ways,These can run froma falloff a wall,toa
pressurized, f a character takes a hitfor lO or fewer points while wearing
breached suit while surveying an airdess moon.iThe.following rules
a self-sealing suit, the suit seals the breach and he takes no funtherdamage.
should help the GM in somc orthese situations.
Ir he takes a hit for more than 1O points,the scctioniof the suit dhiat was hit
is scaled off and the exposed part of his body begins taking yacuum
DROWNING
duage-the point or two perround described in the pcevious paragraph
Drowning can result whenever a chardcter is breathing waler or any
other non-toxic Incrt substance (a nitrogen amosphere, for example)
FALLINGDAMAGE
Once it Is determined that he is in danger of drowning, it can be assumed
Falling damage is based on the distance fallen, Por each S metens
that he is holding his breath. As long as he holds his bncathi he isn't in
fallen a chanactertakcs2pointsofdimage,reduced asusualbyamyannor
danger. Each successive roumd he makes a saving roll against CN to see
he is wearing. Use the Random Hit Location Table to detemine which
ifhe isstill holdine his breath Thelevelofdifficulty increasescach round
part of the anatomy struck the ground first.
At the beginning.of the second round, it's a iDio roll,on the third it'sa
Note that this assumes thal the character is falling in a lG gnavily
2Di0rollonthefounhit'sa 3Dl0rolland soon.Oncehefailsthe roll
field For falls that occur in significantly grealer or lesser gravity fields
he thkes 4 polnts of damape a round until he is dead or is able to breath
siinply multiply the damage times the strength of the gravity,rounding
nomallyagain.
frictions to the neareut whole mudhber.Thus a l meter fall on Earth's
This rule assumes that the change tn the environment was very
moon,which has a gravity of L/6  would resulr in L pointof damage (2
sudden.a fall intoan icy dver.asuiddcn fallure ofa breathingdeviocetc.
x3x1/6).whilethe samefallona2-Gworldresults in 12 pointsofdamage
If the GM feels that the characier had an opportunity to take a few deep
(2X3x2).
breaths beforehand, he should allow the chnracter to make 2D10 saving
Fails from specding ehieles can also hurt If someone jumps, or is
rolls, and only start to increase the dificulry after one minute C6 rounds)
thrown,fromamoving vehicle,he takes 2points for every 5 kphthatthe
has past.
vehicleis tmivelling,A bounce pack can avoidthis damageifthechnncter
wearing it makes a 2Dio Bounce Pack Operations skill check.

--- PAGE 100 [OCR] ---
GGGOGI
WOUNDS ANDHEALING
When people fight, they get hurt. With the weapons of the 69th
isreducedacriscionspesschectshould bemade.Aconsciousnesscheck
Is a IDio toll gainst current CN As with all IDIO rolls, a 1 ls an
century,they get hurt badly, This damage is subuiacled fron CN, and
when cN falls below O,a character is in danger of dying. This.chapter
automatic success.a lo is an automane failure Tf the chcck is successful.
descnbes the various aspects ofdamagc.how todetenmine them, and how
he maintains consciousness.If not, he collapses, unconscious or in shock.
tosurvivethem
When a character takes damage, he must determine the Injury
OPTIONALATTRIBUTEDAMAGE
Location Hemustnlsomakea Conscloisness Check tosceifheremains
conscious. (Using Optional Attribute Damnge, his DX ind AG can be
To reflect the nature of two individunls battering each other sense-
hurt,even ifhe remains on his feet.)
Less, Tt is possible to have the batulers deteriorate as they tnke damage. In
Whether conscious or unconscious, if he is hurt badly enough, he
this case both DX and AG tike damage like CN does, but only on a round
will continue to lose CN points unless a MedTech can sinbilize hin
byround basis This simulares theeffectofdamage on a character's ability
(Stabilization).An option tostabilizntion is Mobilization a hurt char-
to maneuver and atack in a fight.
acterisn'tstabilized,buthe isputback onhisfeet,even ifhis lifecontinues
In the Consciousness Check example,the6points ofdamage would
todrainaway from him.Ifhefalls unconscious,Length of Unconsclous-
have bcen split in hair, with 3 subtracted from Dx and 3 from AG Cin
ness detenmines how long he is out.
dddirion to subtracting all 6 from CNy.Duning the sccond conbat round.
Anytime a character taes damagc, he's hun. However.there are
those two attributes would be lower, making it more difficult both to hit
degrees of hurt. To aid the.description, a few more terms ute defined
afoe and to avoid being hit.In the third round,the 3-point penalties would
hnve elapsed, but any second round damage is now assessed agninst DX
A character's fuil C is the CNvalue listed on his character sheet
and AG for the third round And so forth.
His ciurrent CN is his full CN miaus any damage he's taken and not
If the damage split is.uneven, the one hit eets to decide which
reoovered fram.
attibute loses more Keeping track of the numbers as they shift can be a
If his current CN is o or better,it is positive.
bittricky.butitadds adimensioa tocombatthut could makea one-on-one
Ifhis cunent CN is below o,but not past CN (the opposite of his full
slugfest more interesting
CNy.itisneeatve
If his current CN is past -CN,but not pist twice-CN, it Is doubly
nesanve.
If his cunent CN is pist twioe -CN,he is dead.
Usine Brenmus once more as our exanple, his fulf CN is I4
Uf his current CN is berween Oand 14,tis positive
his.curemrCN is berween-14 and-Iir is negarie.
Jfhis cunrer CNis berween-2s artd-L5,is doubly egarive.
And uf his curnen CN falsbelow-2a,he is.dead.
INJURY LOCATION
The variots rules describing how characters get hurt alsotell how lo
detenmino what part of the body is injured In general, if the injury is
caused by an aimed weapon, use the Aimed Hit Location Table. If the
injury iscaused byan areaelfectwcupon or an accident,uscthe Random
Hh Location Table
CONSCIOUSNESS CHECK
In the course of combat or cther potentially harmful situations,a
character is more likely to collupse from the sudden and massive trauma
inflicted by.a wound,rather.than from the wound itseif.
Whenever a character takes any damage, that danage is suburacled
fromn his current CN level.If he has CN 13,and takes 6 polmts otdamage
his curent CN is reduced to 7. lf he takes andcher 2 points while still
injued,hiscuent CNdropsfrom 7toS.Andwheneveracharacters CN

--- PAGE 101 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGOGGGGGGGG
Foreranple.Bremus.wnh CN/4.DX/8andAGll.tatesopoins
Ifa Med'Tech is trcating a creatureof anotherspecies,he should also
ofdadgefromCaiu.Brennus DXandAGdrop.to75/8.3)and811
have Xenobiology skill for thut species. If he does, he can check against
3.respecriveby,duringthesetondrownd.HisCNdropstos(14-ojand
cither his MedTech or Xenohiology skill levet Tf he doesu't have the
hemakesa successufconsclosnesscheckInthe.second rond,he s hur
appropriate Xenobiology skill, add 2 dice to the chcck.
for3more pointrofdamage.His CN falls lo5(d-5.anld oice marehe
Ifa Mediech stabilizes a palient, the patient stops losing CN points
makesdsuccessudconsciosnesscheck.Hangtoaplir3pointsbetwern
unless he takes subsequent damage In that case restabilization will be
DXandAG,he choosestolasemoreAG.so his DX drops to7(8-1)
required.
aad AGfals to9/-21for the thirdround.ln thethird round.he takes
no damareso DX and AG are al ull lewels durine the fourth round
MOBILIZATION
(ahhoeh his CN stoys ar Sacharucter recovers CN miore slowhy
Mobilization consists of wrapping the injured areats) with a sophis.
WOUND INTENSITY
ticaled picce of bionic machincry (a booster) and pumping the body full
of drugs lo temponarily and rificinlly keep the charicter on his feet A
Before a charucter with medical skill (Med'Tech) can attempt to
booster raises the characters current CN by its rating,fieh boosted CN
stab lizea patient thetntensity ofthe woundmusa bedeicmined, Wouad
is grealer than zero the characier is concious He does pot make another
intenisiry follows the same progression as in Previous Injuries:
consciousness check unless he receives another wound..(CN.loss Trom
being uinstable doesn't count asinother wound."y Boosters have bcen
designed so thalanyone can apply them.
WOUNDINTENSITYTABLE
A booster doesn't stabilize the patient: in fact, it destabilizes any
CNPESLSI
Intensity
Wound Description
character who has recently been stabilizacd The drugs and microcircuits
1-2
Light woundA scratch
drive dhe body oer ard above its limits A Medtech will havelo stabilize
Moderute woundEnough
up.tohalfCN
a patient before he can heal up While the device is functioning. an
blood and pain to cause
unstnble charicter still loses CN due to his unstable condition Csce the
concem, butshould lcave
Unconsciousness Table.below.Thesedevices, while thcykcepcharuc-
liuile more than a scar.
ters going, are not good for them in thc long run.
uptofullCN
SeriouswoundMedical
A boosier can't boost a wounded area higher uhan it oniginally was.
help is need fora reasonably
If a character has taken two 4-point wounds, onc to his left am and one
rapid recovery, Bionic and
tohisrightam,arating S boostcrapplied toeither arm will only boost him
bud grafing can be used for
by 4 points, the amount of damage to that arm. A booster can boost two
cosmetic reasons
wounds in thc sane anea.irboth 4-point wounds had been to the left ann.
morethan full CN
Near DeathRapid medi-
a rating S booster on that arm would boost him by S points.
cal assistance is usually
For miore on the effects of boosters,good and bad,see page 72
required to save the
character's life, Replace-
ment of damaged areas by
bionies and/or bud grafiing
tochniquesaremandatoryto
restore Tuncuons.
STABILIZATION
With the massivedamnge done by weapons, medical help is vital to
keeping characters alive. Because the damage done is sonasty.stabilizing
an injured individual is often a case of being lucky cnough to deal with the
most horid aspects of his wound. Often, all a medic in the field tries to
do is stop the patient from dying
Oncethewoundintensity is discoveredthemcdic makesa MedTech
skill check Cbased on IQ)modified by the rating of my specialized
equipment he is using The number of dice rouled is equal to the Wound
Intensity level. A wound intensity of o does not requirc Medical Aiten-
tion, but a successful IDio check immediately brings the character back
toconsciousness.Intensiry of1isa iDi0check.2isa 2Dio,and so on.
If the character fails the chock he may makc another,but the number.af
dice rolled is increised by lclif a o intensity check fails, hc can makea
IDlocheck)

--- PAGE 102 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGONGOG
AGGOOGGGOGGGGGGGGG
UNCONSCIOLUSNESS TABLE
CurrenICN
If Stabilized
oSbled
Positive
Unconscious for minutes eoual lo
Can't be unstable.
difference between current CN and full CN.
Negative.
Udconscious for houts equal to
Loses I CN point per.hour.
points below.o, plus minutes cqual to full CN.
Doubly Negative
Unconscious cin coma) for days (24 hours)
Loses I cN point per minute.
cqunl to points below negative CN,plus hours
and minutes cgual to full CN.
LENGTH OFUNCONSCIOUSNESS
damage assessed appropriately
SIMPLER OPTIONS
Anytime a churacierfails a consciousness check he is unconscious.
Unless revived with mcdical equipnent, he remains unconscious for.a
lengith of time determined by the Unconsciousness Table
Hit locaticns can be ienored. Simply don't keep track of specific
damage locations,Also,boosters aren tdesigned for spccifie locations-
A character has a curen CNof-2.abovferuh a raringofst
one size fits all, and one booster can affect wounds all cver the body.
applied,artificiallyincreasing AisCNponsHe'sbackonsfeer.wth
However, a charactcr can only wear one boosier at a lime.:
d femponary CN of3.Hovever,he s stil/ Mnstable and contiues losing
Raiher than rolling a consciousness chcck cvery timc a character
CN points aI per hour, since hixaciual current CN is negdne.J The
takes danagc,have a characicr fall unconscious when his CN falls belou
chararterthenfakes To more pofwsofdadeeHir chrrenr CN is donn
o,if boosted back awake,and then injured again, the chamcter falls un-
fo-f2.hisfuncoialCN isdown fo-z.Jhis cNisdoubly neeativear-
conscious.once-more.
2 (te..ofhis fulf CN fsf/ or lessi,hestarisloring /pointeveryainule.
OPTIONALINIURY EFFECTS
He mst niate anorher consctonuness check becavse he took alorher
wvoundThtscheckisarhisfunctional CNof-z.ratherrhan atisrealCN
of-12fnor thar if makes anydiference.sinceolyan autoniatic suecess
Players mightwish touse thc Linked Aitributes and Effeci of the
Woutd krep hin o huis feerin cithercascl
Injury scctions from Previous Injuries.to add more realism to thegame.
They detail the specifie and lasting cffccis of injunies, especially how
MEGADEATHLUCK SAVING ROLL
inurics allcctatnbutelevels.
If using these sections, follow their instnuctions untita LK roll is
called for.Rather thnn using a LK roll to chcck for regrowth or replace-
Heavy wcapons used in this gane are exceedingly deadly. (One
mcnt use Budding and erberaelic Replacements.
point of vehicular damage convens to 12 points of charhcter damagel)
Applying a realistic anountofheavy weapon danaec cankillan interest.
HEALING
ing scenario even faster than tr kills characlers, This is especially true
when heroie action in the facc of obvious death is the only recourse.
Healing rates depend upon the intensity of the wound(s) Flesh
Forexnmple.achiacterslepsfrom covcrasa Spiculumraces across
woundsheal much moreguickdy than moretraumaricwounds becatseihc
the landscape on a strafing run.Thechuracter stands there,braving certain
body has had less of its nonal functiondisrupted by the injuryThe rates
destruction lo get thal one shot off as the fighter pisses overhead The
listed in the Healing Table assume the recovery is in the field,with only
character should be quite dead, but these are hcroes, so they have to be
standard. first aid equipment available CNole that characiers regain
given a chance.
consciousness more quickly than they.hcal.j
The GM should decide how difficulr it would be to survive such an
More sophisticated nedical technology and the skill of the atending
assault, and thecharacter makes a Luck saving roll to see if he escapes
Medic can greatly increase the healing riles n othcr words, in a real
obliteration Forexample, the number of dice to be rolled might bc
hospital with realmcdicinc andrealdoclors.a character.canrecovermuch
delermined by the number of weapofis sysiems the fighter has success-
more quickly
fully employcdon thestrfing run.Acharacter's Luckmieht bemodified
byanappropriateskill(such as Gunneryor Pilot,Small CrafuFighicr)but
only if he can jusiify ir through knowledge of the fighterrExumple He
HEALINGTABLE
explains that the visible danagcon the craft's rieht wing means in will be
CN
Healing Rate
slipping toward the left, ind he moves in the opposiie directon to make
Positive
himself somcwhat morc difnicultto hity
I point per hour.
Negative
1 point per 12 hours, until CN becomes
Tf thc Megodeath Luck saving roll is'employed, be ceriain to apply
it to NPCs as wellsharing the wealth of luck, as it wcre. The MLSR
positive. Then use the "Positive" rate.
Doubly Negative
should not be used as an excuse for stupidity itshould he a rewand
Ipointperday(24hours),unlil CN becomes
granting possible survival toa characterrisking himself forthe good of his
ncgativeThen usc the"Ncgative"rate.
fellows. This rule is best used sparingly and, whcn someone fails the roll,

--- PAGE 103 [OCR] ---
GGGG
AGGGGG
ACCELERATEDHEALING
Medics may altempt to increase the number of CN points recovered
in a healing period, by making an IQ-based MedTech skill check, mod-
ified by iny appropriate equipment rating If so,he must spend the entire
time atiending to his patient(s The number of dice rolled eguals the
number of CN points.that the Medic wishes to add to the current healing
nite. Add one die for each other patient that the Medic is attending to.
A Medic who is Horting dn a patient with negarive CN thealing/
poim per 2 hours] wants to increase the number cf points recovered
during this peniod by3points,The Medic har askill of 5and lO /3.In
additio.he Msin amedititf TheMedie hds to foll3D/oagainsfa
lareet muherof2/(13+5.+3)./fhesucceeds,thepatientgains4points
ofCNinthis12hours.
Jfthe same Medic is also working on fwoother patients at the sdme
fime, ho dice are added to rhe check,miaking ira SDlo roll.
BUDDING
Bundding is the repair and regrowth of limbs or organs where some
function still remains, Regrowth of a limb is tniggered by the stimulation
of cells left at the site,or cultured from a remaining limb The technique
is advanccd cnough thatariehtarm will grow to replace anight anmn, etc.
The only bad things about regrowing a limb or replacenent organ is
that it takes tinmic and requines thal some ponion of the crgan or limb Cor
a relted limb) suill be available, It would be convenient for all if people
were allowed tokcepmindless clones on ice so they could besliced up for
instanily compatible body parts, but rumors of the Reneeade Under-
ground trying to clone an Emperor to put theirown agent on the throne has
made cloning illegal in TOGandhasmadeclone facilities primarytargets
for Praetoriun suicide squady when they are uncovered in the Common-
wealh.
The limb or organ lo be regrown affects the availibility of the
procedure.A die roll is usually required, with either 13 or the character's
Prestiee/3 or his Fame/3 (whichever of the three is highcr) as the tungel
The aumber of dice in the roll is figured by consulting the table below.
BUDDINGCYBERNETICAVAILABILITYAND COSTTABLE
Dice
Area to be Repaired
Cyberhetic Cost
Lower limb
2D10
20.000.+(50.000x2mount
of limbreplaced)
Upper timb
2D10
10.000+c50.000xamont
of limbreplaced)
3D10
Torso organ replaced
30.000
Tonso organ regrown
4D10
SD10
Head organ replaced
30.000
Head organ regrown
SD10
Modifiersto Dice Rolledand Cost
Backwnter world
+2D10
Enemy world
2D10 and triplethecost
Free TradersWorld
Dlo anddoublethe cost
Industrialized world
-1DI0
Capital world
-IDI0
On shipboard
+ID10
Customized cybemelic limb
+3D10
Immediatebudded replacement
+2D10

--- PAGE 104 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGG
OGGGL
GGUO
Alldiceadditions and subtractions arecumulative andnocafegories
replacement.
Preclude other categonics. For example, being on an industrilized C-1).
Roll 2Di0 and consult the chart below. Roll on this table for every
cncmy hcldtt21,capital f-b worldresulis inanetadditionofodicetothe
replaoemeot part, since cvcry pan can be differeol. All modificalions are
saving roll, If the mumber of dice is reduced to o or less, the technique is
iooniginalcquipment-rifonereplacement givesa+l.and the subsequent
available.
neplacementgivesa-2,the neteffecris-2to theattrihule's original value.
(Of counse, attnbutes thut have been improved through expenence keep
BUDDINGTIME AND COST
thoseimprovenents.)
Limbs go through two stages of growth. The budding phase takes
place with the bud protccted inside an artificial linb that functions, bul
with the valoc of both linked attributes cut tn half Cround downj. The
CYBERNETICEFECTONEINKFD ATTRIBUIFS
Roll
artificial limb temains tn place for about S months, When it is removed,
Result
the new limb has virtually all of its long bone erowth.
+t to both alinbutes
The sccond stage is maturation, tn which the limb altains its full
tto both itrbutes
power again. This tnkes another-S months, and at the-end of each month
no changc-as good.as old
the linked alinbutes rccover 20% of their lost poinls. At the end of S
no change:as good ss old
months, the limb has retumed to full health,with only smooth.pink baby
- to both atinbules
skin to mark the new growth.
-Lto bothattnbutes
Replacemerit organs for the torso or head require ten months of
-2toboth atinbules
growth in an outside modlum They are then transplanted into the patient.
3 to both attnbutes
10
who must spend I weck undera doctor's care before he is fully functional
toboth aitnbutes
11
-3 to both attnbules
again.
12
I is possible thal an acceptable full-grown replacement part is
4 to both alinbutes
13
available.If so,the characicrnced only spend one week recovenng from
-3 to bodh aiinbulies
14
thc transplantoperation.
-2to both auinbutes
The cost for regrowth of any limb or organ is 20.o0o Tulerits, plus
- to both atnbutes
16
1o,oO0 Talents x (the number of dice roled to determine vailnbility).
-1 to both attnbutes
17
nochanccas.goodas old
CYBERNETICREPLACEMENTS
18
no changeas good as old
+lto bodh atinbutes
20
+1to bothattnibulcs
Cybemctics is the artificial replacement or repairofa limb or organ
This can be the simnple replacementofadamuigcd hand with a mechanical
one or the repair of the brai itsclf with synthetieneurohs.
Allartificial limbs have Anmor Factor 2.even if there is no armor
Availabilityof replacement parts usunlly reguires a roll, with eithcr
protocting an artificial limb, damage to that limb is cut in hal if it is
To or the character's Prestige/S or his Fame/S twhichever of the threc is
protocted by other, beter ammor,apply thebetter ammor's AF,sincc only
higheryas thetargetThe mumbcrofdice in the roll is figuredbyconsulting
one layer of annor can affect damage recclved,Arificial organs have no
the Ruddine/Cybernetic Availability and Cost Table.Nolcthalcyber
AF and are just as vulncrable as the original equipincnt.
nclic rcplaccments of the entiretorso or hcad are not possible This tabde
There is no way to buy off a reduction n altributes rolled on this
simply reflects the replacemcnt or repaic of a major organ im that arca.
tablec itresulis from aa inccmpatibilityin thecharacter s nervoussystem
Todetcmine how much ofa limb has to bereplacod roll IDloand
nota fauli in the cqulpment A weapon can be built into an arificlal limb.
multiplythcresuhby.10%e.Arollof tor2(10or20%replacement)means
butnothing largerthana carbine will fit Thcostistwicethenormilcost
onlythe handor footwaslst3to 5(30toSo%replacemenbmeans the
For the limb, plus quadnuple the cost of the weapon. (All prices include
lower half ofthc limbmustbe replacedA lo means thc whole limb s
installaticony
gone.Chccking.the.table,an upper limb (i.c..an arm) costs to.ooo+
so.ooox the amount of.limnb replacod1f the 1Dio rolljustdescribed
DAMAGETO REPLACEMENTS
results in a 4,40% must be replaced.50.000 x.40%=20.000 so this
Every point of damage to an area with replacement parts causes a 1
replaccmcntcosts.30.000.(10.000.+20.000)
point loss to its linked attributes, flf the damage doesn't penetrale armor,
Cybemetie replncement.of organs in the hcad or torso function
it doesn'l countj The loss takes effect immediaicly and persists until a
nonmally.All organs require a yearly payment of 6.ooo Talents to keep
newpartispirchasedcrrepairsaremnde Rcpairscost logooftheoriginal
them in good working order, including refilling them with the chenical
costper poinito be repaired
compounds.they cannot synthesize on theirown, Failure to mnintain this
equlpmentreduces the two linked atiributes by4 points cach (sce Linked
COSMETICREPAIRS
Allributes.
Anyone who sufers a disfiguring injury can have Charisma points
Cybernetic Effect on Linked Aitributes noles the modinicatlon of
restored at the cost of io.ooo Talents per point This service is uvaitable
linked ultributes that resulis from a cybemetic replacepent.I is possible
al anymedical facility,An individual once per lifetime.miay buy upto2
for a replacehent toactually function better than theorieinal. The reason
Charismia points (a face liftandbody tuck).alsoata costof1o.ooo Talents
for this is not fully understood, but it Is believed to have sonething to do
Per poinL
with themteraction between the individual's nervous systen and the

--- PAGE 105 [OCR] ---
GGU
SPACETRAVEL
INTERSTELLARTRAVEL
Space travel time, a person must spend an hour in nomal space The
evidence of this accumulated time is an increasingly bright glow called
Tau Shippier,Tfa character approuches 725 hours, he starts lo glow with
Intersteliar travel,while not necessary toevery campnign,is abasic
Tau Shimmer. Ir heexcceds thal limit he begins to take damage at a rate
element of Legionnnire.This chapler is a quick setof rules for characters
of I CN point per excess minute. An average character will be sevcrely
to use between and nround the stars.
Injured after1lminutesofexcess time,anddeadwithin35minutes.There
HOWT-SPAOEWORKS
is no saving toll or medical trcatmcnt thotcan prevent this unfortunate and
Tachyon Space, or T-Spuce, is cssentially a dimension that cxists
dcadly result Inanimate objects are affccted just as dastically an objecl
with over 725.hours.of accumulated time in T-Space implodes,tuming
perpendicular to the nonmal universe. In that dimension, the minimum
speedthatan obicctcan cxist (andtravebisal 12 timesthespced of igh
itselr inside-out.
Travel over interstellar distances follows scveral basic steps, The
SPEED:FASTVS.SLOW
first is for thc ship to aim itself in thedirection of its inicnded destination
Given the dangers of prolonged exposure to T-Spacc, the obvious
This aim is very important,since alltravelin T-Spaceoccurs in a straight
thought is to acceleratea ship to the maximum entry velocity (75o) and
line.
Second, the vessel must be moving at a high speed. A ship's speed
pass through as quickly as possible There are scveral drawbacks to this.
before entering T-Spaceisdirectly proportional to its velocity in T-Space
however.
When a shipexits T-Space back into nomal space (N-Space), the
The slowest possible speed in T-Spae is I light year per month (ly)
monthy, The fastest speed is 1o.ooo ly/month The minimum cntry speed
ship resumes its entry velocity,A vessel that entered at 75o also exits at
Tso, Tt takes hours for the vessel to slow down enough to engage a
to T-Spaceis27,000kph.Theminimum time possible in T-Space is.O18
stationarytargetin combat.lfithasntslowedsufficiently,theshipsimply
scconds and the minimuin distance that can be jumped is S AUs (one
flies by at an outrageous specd,making one very fast firing pass,High
sector.seebelow.
In game terms this mcans that aship must have a minimuim velocity
cntry speeds often require that the cxit point be far fromn the targct area.
Also,a ship moving through T-Space at a high rate of speed disnupts T.
of 30 prior to cniring T-Space Thie maximum velocity that a ship can
haveioenterT-Spaceis 750(675.000kph).In anycasc,a shipmustspend
Space.over a broad area, announcing it's passage to T-Spacc doppler
arrays and virtually eliminating the chance of.surpnse. Thus,a slowcr
six or more minutes of coursecalculation time pniorto entering T-Space
speed is often desirable, reducing the disruption and the chance of
or the vessel risks a dangerous and far off-course exit point.
The maximum time that an object can spend in T-Space is 725
detcction, as well as reducing the amount of time needed to slowdown to
a reasonublevelocity for'engagement.
continuous hours, or just over So days,Forevery hour of accumulnted T-

--- PAGE 106 [OCR] ---
GGOOOGGOGU
T-SPACEMEGHANICS
Z.DISTANCEANDTRAVELTIME
Distance is always mcasured in light years for interstellar travel. For
example,the disunce belween Caesar s Follyand Cina is 1so light years
The basic steps to follow when truvelling through T-Space are.
(sce the Shannedam County map) Divide the distance by the T-Space
I.Decidethe entry velocity of the ship,thus detemining thc ship's
spced to find how many months it will tuke to complete the passage.
T-Space velocity (in light years per month).
Remember to add in time for shedding Tau Shimmer.Forexample,a tip
2. Detemmine the distance to the desired exit point (in light years).
belween Caesar'sFollyand Cina t1S0ly,at 20ly/month,willtakeseven
Divide this distance by the T-Space velocity Cin light years per moothy io
and a half months, without shedding Tau Shimmcr. S thonths of travel
determine the length of time (in months) chat the ship must spend in T.
would be necessary to keep thc crew alive.
Space,
3, Detemine the time needed to accurately calculate the planned
3.NEOESSARY GALOULATIONTIME
jump.
The distance to be travelled determines the timie that the ship's
4..Make an Asuonavigation skill check to detemine if the ship's
computer needs to make the calculations for dccurate T-Space travel.
actual course follows its intended course.
Sa If the check succcods, the ship amives at its intended syslem
Makce another Asironavigation skill check lo delermine how closely it
T-SPACECALCULATION TABLE
cxits to its intended exit point in that system.
Light Years
Minimun Calcutation Time minules)
Sb.If the check fais, consult the Course Adjustment Table to sce
Upto 100
hiow far off course the ship travels, and begn plmning another gump
200
12
300
18
L:T-SPACE VELOCTTY
400
24
A shipcan nccelerateto T Space cntry velocity ar a raite cqual to its
500
30
Thnustper minute dif a definition of Thnust orother tenns hereis needed
600
36
check Vehicle Combat  Normal velocity is measured in Interceptor
700
800
units, I unit being about 9oo kph The mimirmum velocity necded to make
48
a jumpto T-Space is30,andthemaximum possible is 750.A shipwith
900
aThrustof6takes5minutesto reach the minimum specd (3o/65:it
1000
60
takes125minutes c75o/6yforthe same shipto reach themaximum spced
2000
120
possible. When a ship's entry velocity is known (or when the desired T.
3000
180
Space speed is known chcck the T-Space Speed Table for its T-Space
240
5000
speed or for its entry velocity):
300
6000
360
7000
420
T-SPACESPEEDTABLE
8000
480
T-Space Speed (ly/month)
Entry Speed
9000
540
30
10.000
600
Thus, the minimum time needed to lay in the precise course between
10
Caesar s Folly and Cinia is halfway between 6 and 12 minutes9
S0
minutes.
55
50
60
100
4.ASTRONAVIGATION SKILL GHECK
65
200
Once a course is laid in and the jump has begun,a 2Dio IQ-based
70
500
Astronavigation skill check is required, with the following modifiers.
1000
-Add the'rating ofthecomputer's Astronavigation Expertsystem to
150
2000
thc target mumber.
225
3000
-Subtract i fron the target number for each minute less that than the
300
4000
time prescribed for the jump (from Step 4).
375
5000
-Add  to the target number for each additional minute spent in
450
6000
colculationtupto+l0)
525
7000
-Add one dieto the roll foreach FTL block that isdamaged, Cifusing
600
8000
Leviathan,instead addonedieforFTLMinorDamaeand2diceforFTL
675
9000
Major Damagc.)
750
10.000
Ifthe check succeeds,applythe time speni in T-Space (from Step2)
to each churacter's Shinimer Tau level.(Also add the timeto any other
object's level, if that object's Shimimer Tau level is crucial)

--- PAGE 107 [OCR] ---
OOGGGGGGGG
AGGGGOOG
JUGGGO
GGGGGGGGGO
SASUCCESSFUL CHECK:PRECISEEXIT POINT
SB.FAILED CHECK:OFFCOURSE
Once in system,a check is made to see precisely how close the ship
If the check fails.the ship makes a gross misjumpto some random
is to its desired exit point.Because distance traveled is a function of the
section of spdce, lights years away from the imtended exit point Since
time spent in T-Spuce,and because T-Space velocities are incredibly
there isso littlechancethat theshipwilarriveanywherebutempty space,
high, even an extna second at maxinmum vclocity in T-Spacemcans an
all that really matters is the general location of the ship and how long it
ovcrshoot of Oo3 light yeirs. That translates to roughby 28 billion
wili take to get to lts final destination The Course Adjustmicnt Table
kilometersor i87times the distance from the Earth to its sun.The
lists how far off ccursethc jumpwas.
shipboard clocks used to control T-Space cntrance and ekit are bctierthan
Iftheprescribed time (ormore)was spentcalculatingthecourse,use
that, but exit errors are something that only can be minimized, no
the far iehtcolumn
eliminnted.
If not, divide the number of minutes spent in calculation by the
For simplicity,rather than taking imto accotini exit speed, ship's
prescribed time, and round down to the nearest sixth.
maxinum thrus,velocity,averageexiteror,cxit point ws.nctual objec-
tive and the like.make a second Astronavigatlon roll,modified this time
For example.for a S00-highr-wear jump, the prescribed time is 30
just by che computer's rating and any FTL-Dnive damage.(lenore the
mtrmtes.J ony 4minideswere dctualy spemr n calculation,usethe Z/
calculationtimemodifier.Thisroll,unlikethefirslissomewhatdepend
3.colum7/4/30Pondsdomto1/3
ent on luck.so its base is the nveraee of the asironaviator's JQ and LK
(rounded doan).The samc astronuvigutor must make both rolls, sinceit
Cross-reference the original travel time with the appropriate column
is esscntially onc opcration that trieersboth rolls.Noteby how much the
tofind how faroffcoursethe jumpwas,in hoursordays,That ishow many
roll is mndeor missed, and usc that margin on the Time to Destination
hoursordays,at theoriginal jump's T-Space velocity.it will taketoreach
Table to find how far thc ship is from its destination in the system.
the onginal destination Hassuming the ship doesn't misjump again!
Courinuing the eranple,a Soo-fighr-year jierp,ar Cor trtance]
TIMETO DESTINATIONTABLE
FOoo/wmanth.hasan originalrravelrimeofhayamonthabot15days.
Margin on Roll
Time to intended locatlon
Cross-referencing /5 days with the l/3 colunun, t will take5more doys,
-5or worse
To hours
tnnellinea looo hwmonth,toreachthe origina destnarionThat meas
9hours
that the ship tsabout.15 tighr yedrs.of cowrse (/000 bwmonth,divided
8 hours
by5 days.The recovery trip will an/y fake2.5 days if travelline ar2000
7hours
bymomthirwiltateJdayeftraeling at SO0bwnanrh
6hours
Shours
Remember that if the additional time for a second jump would take
4 hours
anyone over his Shimmer Tau limit, even more time should be spent cin
2-3
3houry
normal space)to bled off the excess Shimmer Tau.
45
2 hours
6.8
Ihour
9-11
30mintes
COURSEADJUSTMENTTABLE
12-14
15minutes
Original
15+
Fraction af Prescrbed Minutes
Sminutes
Travel Thme
Spent Calculuting Course
(in days)
1//223
5V6
Irthe ship is intendinga flyby,(i.c,not stoppingaf tdestination,but
under 2
36hrs18hus12hns8hrs4hrs
2 hrs
just flying past it cutthe result in half.if the shipis coming intoa system
6E-Z
10
24 hrs18 hrs12hus 8hrs4hrs
where itmightbe subjectto an inlerception,record the margin usedonthis
46.9
36hrs:24hrs:18hrs12hus8hrs
table forTuturerelerence.
66-2
20
36.hrs:24 hrs18hrs:12hrs
If it isn'tenough simply to know how far from its intended destin-
10-12.9
30
36hrs24hns18hrs
tion the ship arrivesif it's importunt to know precisely where in the
13-15.9
40
10
36-hrs.24 hrs
systein the ship isthe GM can use the following procedure:
16-19.9
10
36 his
Estimute how far the shipcan travel Cand havethe velocity it desires
20-23.9
10
upon arrivaly in the time found on the Time to Destination Table, Then
24-27.9
35
15
draw acircleon the systemmaparoundthe intcnded destination,with that
28-30.2
80
50
35
25
distance as its radius. The ship is somewhere on that circle rundomly
deternine whereit is CFor thc reality nuls, it isn'ta circle you want, but
(All results are in daysunless hours are specified)
rathera spherc You miehr try a latitude.and loogitudeapproach,similar
the the method ust descnbed)
Again,if it isn'tenough just to know how far off course the ship is.
figurethedisthnceoff-courseand draw acirclewith thatradiusaround che
imtended desination Then randomly detenmine where on thc circle the
ship amived

--- PAGE 108 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
PLAYER KNOWLEDGE
If the roll is made.the ship has bcen detcctcd If not, the.ship was
Much.of the infonmation from these rolls and other decisions isn't
missed by the T-Dopplerstation and is undetected, When severl ships are
immediately available to the playcrs or their.characiers,The GM mighl
moving together, just roll one detection attempt,using thc target modifier
makethe first Astronavigalion roll in sccret.sothatcharactersdon'tknow
for the lareest ship in the fleet.
All inhabied systems have a T-Doppler station In addition, nll
whetherthay vejumpcd accurately ornoluntil they coneoutof TSpace.
And, if the jump.was off course, characicrs won't lnow.ckactly-where
bartleshipand cnuiser class ships are equipped with T-Dopplers, though
they are,orhow faroff coursethey are.unless and untiltheir sysiems can
these are nommally not manned while in a fnendly system, And finally.
tell them.
patrol class ships Cprimanly escorts) are outfitted with T-Dopplers to
serve as picket ships stationed along borders.
FPEETAOTIONS
T-Dopplers detect direction and sizc of paltem,thus providing the
Aship doesn'always travel by itseif.When more than onc ship are
direction and speed thata shipis travelling.They can'tdetecta futureexil
jumping togethcr,theships are usually Linked to the best astronavigator
point, but their information delcrmines which systems the ship could be
Cand computeriinthefleet,whomukes one skillcheck fortheentire feet.
heading for and the potential arrival timc at cach systein. Normally.
so that whenever they cnd up,they usually end up together. (Of course
friendly systems are then alerted to possible hostile arrivals.
individual ship systems can fail, espccially if not repuired following a
major battle, sending a ship off couirse by itself.)y
N-SPACEDETECTION
The roll for detection in nonmal space occurs when a ship firstexits
DETECTION
T-Space, or when it first begins maneuvering apart from the rest of its
Tleet.(This last calcgory includes fighier and drop pod deploymeat.) The
Discovering where the encmy is and where he is going.as cady as
procedure for nonmal space detection is similar to thnt for T-Space
possible, is a key to winning ny battle With the vast distances lo be
detectionA2Dlo lo-based EcM/EccMskill check is made.with the
covercd even in an area as"smallas a planciiny orbit,only advanced
following modificrs iothe number ofdicerolled:
wamngallowaa corimandertoconccntratehis forcesapainstan incom-
ineraider.Poordeiection eguipment forcesasystem defenscconmander
Condition
Modifer
to'spread out his forces and pamisoni cach poicntial targct.Tn the course
Type of ship
ofenteringasysiem fromn T-Spacc.thcrearcbasicallytwowaysthataship
Drop pod/Fighier
+4D10
mieht be delectedby T-Space deteclors and nomal space (N-Space)
Patol Class/Small Merchant
+3D10
deleclors.Whn and how the ship is delecicd affects thc opposition that
Destroyer/Medium Merchant
can be sent aeainst it.
Frigate/Large Merchant
+ID10
Cruiser
TSPACEDETEOTION
Battlcship
-IDI0
Each ship moving through T-Space disrupts the tachyon flow.
Was detected in T-Space
-2D10
making"waves"and exposing the vessel to detection by any T-Doppler
Operating shut downt
+IDI0
sensors it may pass during it's diht.
The widih of the disruption patiem caused bya vessel is deicrmined
Operating in shuf dow mode means that the craft is not ma.
by the speed it is travelling.Divide n ship's speed (in light years/month)
peuvering or hended tovrards any strategic location,This tactie is
by 2o to deteriminc how wide to eich side the path of.disruption ist For
most ofien used by T-Space-capable cariers when they shuitle
cxample, a ship travelling at 6o0 lyhionth spreads a wave of tachyon
snaller ctruft to a battle.If a ship is undetected while in shut down
disrupuion 30 light years to each side. This wave also runs 30 light years
mode,another delection roll is made if it comes out of that mode.
in fronlof theship
IfaT-Dopplerpostiswithinaship sdisruption paitern,makea2Dr0
If the roll is made, the ship is delected When several ships dre
Io-based EcM/ECCMskillcheck withthetargetnumbermodifiedby the
moving togcthcr,justroll onedetection altempt,usingthe tarelmodifier
mting of the station (Unless the GMdecides otherwisean NPC-manned
for the largest ship In the fleet.
T-Dopplerstarion has anoperatorwithIO1landEcM/ECCM skillof5:
Detecticn mt this point means dat it still might be possible to
the station has a rating of 4, for a total of 20.y in addition,modity the roll
intctoept thc shipbofore it rcaches its destination. Unless the GM decides
by the ship'stype.
otherwise, an NPC-manned N-Space detection station has an operator
withloTand EcM/EcoMskillofS:thestationhasa ratingof4.fora
Typeof Ship
Modifier
total of20r
Patrol Class'Small Merchant
￥3D10
Dcsiroycr/Medium Merchami
+2D10
FnigaieLarge Merchnt
+IDI0
Cruiser
Battleship
-IDI0

--- PAGE 109 [OCR] ---
GGGOGGGGGGGL
AAGGI
FUELUSAGE
When characters enter u aystem from T, Space,they enter a specific
sector and usually stay within that sectoriNomal space travel between
Spacccraf in the 69th ccntury use hydrogen as a renction mass. In
sectors takes a very lcng timelays.trcven monthshgiven the reaction
mass capacity or micst ships, listead, FTE-capable ships use T Space
general Cighter can store cnough hydrogen loaccelerate to a yelocity of
micro jumps.A T-Spacemicro jump is just.likcany otherT-Space jump.
7so,and then decelerate to a stop.Largcr ship tanks are large enough to
with the same possible crrors.(However.given the smaller scale, enors
thrust uptoa vclocicy of 7soand then decelerale,twicetor upto a vclocity
of Iso and then decelerute,once).Cnpital ships utually refuel by
are usmally much less drustic.)
skimming a gas giant (a planet with a diamcter of at least 3o.o00
Characters who wish to travel between sectors via normal space
kilometers), this costs nothing. Fighters usually refuel on board their
should use siandard acceleration formulas to conipute elapsed timc.
Remcmbcr that ho fuel is nceded to mainlain a constant speed fuel is
carer.Totonllyrefuela fiehterata.commercial sitecosts l.ooo Talents,
needed only to accelerale or decelerate. However: also remember that a
MOVEMENTINASOLARSYSTEM
siindard fighler  for instance.can only accclerare To 7so and then
decelerate to a stop once on one tank.Ar 7so,it takes abouta dayto travel
In Legionnaire.a solar system ismapped with I I concentnic-rings.
from one scctorto thenext plus another 3 or 4 hours to speed tup and siow
Each of these nings is an orbiraf rddius zone Each zone is divided mto
down.
seciors which are about AUs in arc. (An AUis an Asironomical Unit.
SYSTEMDEEENSES
or the distance from the Ennh to its sun) Imagine a circularchain: each
of the links in the chain is a sector.Smaller zones tchains) have Tewer
The GM allocates non-player defense forces to intercept or engage
sectors (links).The smallest zone is divided into 3 sectors The largest has
over 3oo sectors. Each plinet in a system orbits in one of the zoncs and
an incoming force, The following guidelincs are bised on how early the
moves from sector to sector in the zone atabout I sector a uonth.The
intnuderis detecled:
Detected in T-Space. All system forces can be moved to the scctor
systcm'ssun occuples its own l-sectorzone.
that the intruder will be cntering. Reinfocemcnts fron other systems
Sectors
AUS
Sol System Planei
might be available.These forcesshould be assigned torccnforce gamisons
Sol
Zone 0
al specific locations in that sector, c orbital manufacturing faciliy.
25
Mercury
Zone1
VLcANaval Port Fighter Base, Ground Installation
Venus
Detected in N.Space. All forces in the target's sector that have a
Zone 2
12
thrust equal to or greater than the incoming force's may attempt an
Zone3
Earth
Mars
24
Zone 4
Interccption, Ships with less thrust than the incoming force stay in
Zone.s
48
AsteroidBelt
gairison positions but are on alent When the invading force reaches its
96
Zone 6
Jupier
objective,amygarrison there is ableto movc.nonnally.
192
16
Not Detected. Only fonces garrisoning the objective are available to
Zone 7
Satum
Uranus
32
384
ight the incoming force. Leviathan combat takes place with the objcc-
768
Zone9
Neptune
tivc on the board Capitalshins andpatrolshipsnolonalertlakethrectums
Pluto
1536
128
(three minutess before they are operational. Fighters may be Launched
Zone 10
3072
Zone 11
256
during the first turn, and engage in combat on the second iurn. Note thal
if a force is not going toa gamisoned location, it will take time for the
sysiem's defenses to respond.
These defensive sirategies are simply guidelines for the Gamemas-
ter,andhe isfreetomodifythem Nolethatfewsysiemicommanderswill
activate their entire cormmand to intercept a raid by a single squadron of
fighters, However, tf an incoming batileship is detected.it probably will
be imerwith every ship in the system

--- PAGE 110 [OCR] ---
GGOGL
GGGG
Solar System Map
Zone 6
Zone 4
Zone3
Zone 2
Zone1
Zone 5
SAU
4AU
25AU
5AU
ZAU

--- PAGE 111 [OCR] ---
GGGOGGOUUL
IGGGGGG
VEHICLE COMBAT
FASA has thnee cxcellent games for fighting vehicle or large scale
Sensors (Sen). Each craft gets 3 Sensor boxes.
bailes in the Renegade Legion universe:Intenceptor Centurion,and
Life Support (Life),Fach ship gets 4 Life Suppon boxes.The loss
Leviathan However many ofthe batiles hkelytooccur in Legionnaire
of all four indicates that the crew is relying on their suit's life suppont
are.going to be small and using thesc gamcs could prove to be more
system.
cumbersome than you wish This set of rules gives a quick resolution to
Weapon Systems (Weal. One box per weapon. Each weapon has
small-scale combal, so that you can get on with the roleplaying.
the numberof damage points that it does following it.Each Hard Pointcan
mount one missile or any type or an ECM pod. Automatic Hard Points
SPACE COMBAT
carry a lo missile maeazine, but only 1 missile a tum can be fired from
them.
SoT. CPilot skill + craft's Thrustv2. This can change during the
These rules ane most approprinte when a character is traveling in
course of a banle.
space and encounters a small number of fighters or a patrol ship.Taking
the timc to set up Interceptor for a small encounter might not be worh
COMBATRESOLUTION
your while this quick combal system should be able to resolve such
Beforethebeginning ofa batile,itmustbedetemmined ifadcep space
banles easiby
interoeptio was made, and that baile resolved Next the bartle at the
SPACECRAFTRECORDSHEETS
aclual targel arca is resolved lf a deep space interception is possible.
followthe Interception instnuctionsonce.Each round of Vehicle Combal
Each vehicle engaged in the bantic should have a record sheet filled
follows the next two steps..
out forit pniortothe startof the combat Normally each area has a number
of damaee blocks equal to the value listed for that craft.
O, Interception, This step is taken only if the altacking ships have
Structure (Strc.These represent the stnuctural soundness of the
been delected prior to reaiching their target The GM determines if the
craft When all of the boxes are gone the vehicle has been destroyed.
vessels involved can actually iniercept each other for combat purposes
FTL Sstems CFTLy.Thls isthe Faster-Than-Liehi Drive, When
and also determines whether the attack will be a ny-by or a normal
these are destroyed the ship cannot jump into T-Space,Each ship with
cngagement. This step is taken only at the beginning of a batle.
FIL capabilily ges three FTL Systems boxes, Ships without an FTL.
L. Determine Safe Operating Thrust and Engagement Range.
system ger no boxes Installathons gct three boxes, which represent their
2. Combat.
funcrionalmnchineny.
Shields (Shld, This walue represents the strength of the vehicle's
OINTERCEPTION
shielding The craft should have one box for cach point of shiclding.
If the ship hns been deected in N-Space, the GM might decide thal
Thrust. This represents dhe drust that che craft can generate. It
adeep space interccption will beantempled. In sone cases,if the ship is
should havc a numberof boxes cgual to the vehicle's Thnust. Each hiton
nor heading for a defended installation, this wll be the only opportunity
 Thnustbox reduces the ship's Thrust by LI pointof Thunst is equalto
for any in system ships to engage the incoming vessels.
an accleration of aproxintemty 9oo kph each hour.
To see if thefonce has been intercepled in deep space,the incoming
Armon ArmrThis represents the total armor protection of the
forcecommander shouldmakean 1Dlo IQ-based Tactics,Fighier/Small
craft or installation
Craft check opposed by the Tactics, Fighter/Small Craft skill of the
Crew (Crew) Nuinber'ofcrew members necessury to control thc
comimander of the intercepting force The following modifiers should be
crsft Each crew menber should be on the sheel and have a nuimber.ot
added to each of the commandersTotal. Note that while thnust was
boxes equal to his CN/3rounding up,The dcfault CN is t1.All fighters
impontant to scc what foroes could be used for the attempt SOT is used to
must have I pilot, any additional crew members are gunners. All FIL
see if the interception is successful.
capable ships must hrve at leist lpilo I nivigalor,one Sublieht dnve
engineer, and one FiL engineer. Any additional crcw mcmbers are
INCOMING COMMANDER
gunners, A hit in this area results in the player randomly selecting a crew
Lowest SOT in force
mcmber, who suffers 36 points of damage, modified as ormal If a
Hiehest EcM/Ee cM skill and equipment rating in force
gunneris kill or putout of action the numbcr of weapons that may be fired
Marein on Precise Exil Point roll (from Space Trarel rules)
is reduced by S,Ifapilot iskulledor putoutofaction thecraft his AGand
skills can not beadded tothe Defender Totals and the riumberof weapons
INTERCEPTING COMMANDER
that may be fired is reduced by S,Ifthe Navigator or FlLcngineer is pul
LowestSoTinforce
out of action the ship may not jump for T-Space. Extr passengers, Le.
Highest ECM/ECCMand equipment rating in fonce
those not manning onc ofthese stations willnot bedamaeed by Crew hits..
Astrogalon
Weapon Comps (Wcom).The targcting computcr systen.Each
craft.gcts 4.Wapon Comps boxes

--- PAGE 112 [OCR] ---
GGGG
If the incoming commander fails the check by 3 or more, the
cannot be (further damaged, roll to geta new damage location, Note that
intcrceptingcommandermaychosetomake his altack afly-byor anormal
weapons hits need a second roll to discover which weapon is oul Aiso
combat If the incoming commander fails by or 2, then the inlerception
patrol class ships and installations mount up to 20 weapons, An evcn/odd
is a fly-by.giving one exchunge of shots before the incoming fonce is past
oll is nced to detemmine which block of weapons are hitthen a second roll
the intercepting forcc.If the incoming commmunder makes his check, he is
is needed to detemmine the specific weapon.
safely past the interception aternpt
Afierall attacks have been completed a new combat round begins.
Find the newengagemcnt range and proceed.
IDETERMININGENGAGEMENTRANGE
Afterdetermining what type of combatis to be piayed out (iniercep-
FLY-BYATTACKS
tion,fly-by interception, attack ofa base, strafing run,eic.a.the ncxt step
Fly-by attacks are the result of one or both forces going too fastto
is to determine the engagement range, This is important, since the side
stop and fight One might result from a deep-space interception (see
with the higher SOT is the one that controls that particular round of
above)
comnbat. If there s morehan one ship inaforce,usethe lowest SoT ofall
In an atack.on a stationury (or orbiting) objective,the altacking
of the ships.
commanderdecides whethertoconductafly-by attack ornormal combat.
The GM rolls 1Dio to detemine the bse ranee If both sides have
Ply-by attcks are just like nomal combat, including the calculation for
the same Clowest) SoT,the bascringe rolled is the range for this round
cngageiticnt range: the only diffenence is that onby one round of comhat
of combat On the other hand, if one player his a higher SoT than the
can be perfcrned.
other, that player is the conuroling player for this round, Find the
difference between the two SOTs. Thar differehce is how much the
controlling player can modify the base range by. If the range is modified
to l, the action is broken off and the combot ends immediately.
For example,wo Renegade shipr are engaging a TOG picker.The
Renegadles hawe SOTs afd and 9.The TOGs SOT is S.The Renegade's
lowestSOT6.whichE2lowerthanrhrTOGsSOT.sotheTOGplayer
Ls the controllins ployerthis round.The GM rolis a die lo determine the
base raneeforthis round HerollsaS:theTOGplayercan adjustrhatby
L or 2 in ither direction,so he can specjythar the rangc this round wil
be3.4.5,6.or Z.Jthe roll had beena9orlo.theTOGplavercould ha
adjiested he roll to an JI,allowing him to break of From the negual
comba
Z.COMBAT
Once the engagenent range has becn determined, cach ship can fire
its weapons at an opposing ship, Each weapon attack is resolvcd individu-
aly,but no damage is applied until all wcapons have fired A round of
combat follows six quick steps:
I.The Atacker declires which ship he is firing at
2a, The Attacker totals his DX and Gunncry,Fighter/Small Craft skill
and adds I for each functioning Computer and Sensor box.
Zb.The Defender tolals his AG and Pilot,Fighier/Small Craft skill,and
adds the engagement range (see above) and I for each of his remaining
Shield Boxes,
3.The Defender's Total is subtracted fron the Auacker s Total This is
dhe target number for a 1D1o roll This roll is made for each weapons
system being fired, A pilot may fire up to S of his wcapons in a combat
round.Agunncron board may also fireuptoS wcapons.Each missile may
onby be fired once.Missile fire subtracts 3 from the Attacker's Total ifits
torget has a functioning ECM pod Missile fire is also modified by the
rating of any Safeguard and/or MDC-G systems on it MDC.G systems
havea2rating.Rememberthatal isalwaysa hitanda loisalwaysamiss.
4.The dandage done by all hits is totalled.
S,The total damage (from Step 4) is divided by the defender's total
number of Ammor.boxes, rounding down The result is the umber of
damage points that penetrated the defender's ship.
6.Foreach damage point (from Step 5y, the attacker rols 1Dio, Each roll
represents a location which has becn hit and loses one box.Tf a location

--- PAGE 113 [OCR] ---
GGGGGOGGGGL
GGGOG
GGGI
I.Brennus is fighiing in his Spicuum againsta Reneedde piior (Larson)
GROUND COMBAT
in a Space Gull.
2a.Brennus.withDX/8,Gumnery4.4WChoresand3Sentsorbaes.gets
The Ground Combat system is designed to handle srnall-scale
anAmackersToalof291/8+4+4+3J
ground Tand-based combat in Legionnaire, including combat between
2h.Larson hasAG fo.Pilef4,4shields.and the runse is4 heres,for d
men and vchicles, Taking the time to set up Centurion for a small
DefendersToalof22/0+4+4
encounter might not be worth your while: this quick combat system
3.2922-7.so7or lesstr nharBrennuxts lookinsforon each oy ts
should be ahle to resolve such baitles easily
ofls,Brennutrollsforeachofhisweapons.shootingfuomissilesin ts
GrstroundHehisirhmo lasersandonemisile
GROUND VEHICLE RECORDSHEETS
4.8remhtoa/shisdaaee.6+6+20=32
Each vehicle engaged in the battle should have a rccord sheet filled
5.32sdided.byLarson scurrenl armtr.32/7=4so4poins get
out forit priorto the start ofihe combat Normally eachareu has a number
throueh.
of damage blocks egual to the value listed for that crafu The Ground
6.Bnennusnolisddie4rinnsfonceforeactpointofdamnage/didknocks
Vehicle stats are very similar Lo the Spacecraft stals with some minor
a borof the Space Gullin eachlocarion rolled Jaship has nobores tef
differences.CommanderCmmndry,GunnerGunnrh and PilotPiy re-
n a location thar is rolledre-rolf rhedie,ff a.speciicweapon isgoe
place FlL, Life Support and Crew respcctively in the spacecraft stats.
Fandont/yselecfdnothcrwedpontodestroyunlersthercdrenowedpons
These valucs should equal the CN/3 of the characters in thut position.If
le.JBrenusaisomarksofthemwmissileshefired,theycannabuorb
a numberhasa capital Iafier it,it indicates that any Infantry troops within
damaee for his ship after they ie been fred.
thc tank also take darnaee when that location is hit.
Fing ar he same time Brennus does, Larson has a targermher
The Thnust factor.for tanks has either a tor g after it to indicatea
of /and hits with three pinrs ofdanagr. Healso fines a missile.so u is
lerain dependent vehicle ora Grav ehicle.This points outthedifference
hlarked of gf his sheer. The following diagrams illustrate the wo ships
betweco the two typcs.
oferaneoudofcomlat.
Note that the TVLG and SMuM missiles show the total mumber of
missiles aivailable and the points of damage per missile.Thus a T VLG (4)
IOppm means that4 TVLGmissile arcavailible andeach missilewilldo
LOpointsofdamagc
If a character in a vehicle is hit, treat the hit as causing 36 points of
damage and follow the rules for Wounds and Healing.
SPICULUM
SPACE GULL
Structure:
Structure:
FTL Systems:
None
FTL Systems:
2.
None
Shields:
Shields:
3.
Engines:
Engines:
4.
Armor:
5.
Armor:
6.
Pilot
Pilot
Weap, Comps..
Weap.Comps.:
7.
8..
Sensors:
8.
Sensors:
Life Support:
9.
Life Support:
9.
10.
Weapons:
10.Weapons:
TMDC85pS.
1 7.4/4Laser6pes
21 7.4/4 Laser6ps
2MDC 85pts.
31 Missle 20pls
3JEPC14Spts.
4) Missile 20pts
4)EPC14SPS
S) Missile 20 pts
5Missile 20pts

--- PAGE 114 [OCR] ---
AGGGGOGG
GNGGGOGGOOL
OGOGGGGG
GGG
6.For each damage point (from Step Sy.the atacker rolls 1Dlo. Each roll
COMBATRESOLUTION
This system is very similar to the space vehicle combat system, but
represents a location which has been hit and loses one box, If a location
cannor be (furtheri damaged, roll to get a new damage location.
chere area few diflerences, Ground vehicleversus vehiclc combat isdes
cribed first, followed by changes to be made when a character is fighting
Afterall atticks huive been compleied a new combat round begins.
on foot.
Find the new engagenent range and proceed.
Each round of grotnd vehicle combat folows these two steps.
Note thatevery vehicle has a Cominunder, The Commander can fill
I, Determine Effective Speed and Engagement Range.
either the Gunner position ifeither of them is taken out during combat.
2. Combal.
DISMOUNTEDINFANTRYSOUADS
LDETERMININGENGAGEMENTRANGE
Infantry sguads have4 TVLGs or two mortars,but no shields and no
Effective Speed (ES) is.computed by adding together a vehicle's
fvehicularianmor.tlakes B bits todestroy a squad.A sguad s Antacker s
Engineboxesand itspilot's Pilot,Groundskill leveland then dividingthe
Total is 25.Funing their individual Weapons,they do9 points of damage.
fesult by 2.If more than one vehicle is involved,cach side uses'the lowest
In any combat round, a dismounted infantry sguad can either fire
Effective Speed among its forces, A dismounted infantry squad hns an
theirpersonal weapons,fire all4TVLGsorboth mortars,r painta target.
Effective Speed of 3.
They may only firctheir personad weapons if the range is 3 or less.
TheGM rolls IDio to detennine the base ranee.If both'sides have
Thcy may only fire their paintinge lasers if the runge is 6 or less,A
the same flowesty ES,the base rangc rolled is the range for this round of
squad which is painting hits on any roll that isn'tan automatic failuretle..
combat. On the other hand, if one playet has a higher Es than the other.
ona 1-9.regardless of theDefender's Total
thal player is the coafrolling plaer for this round. Find the difference
Asquad'smortars can be fired atany range,
betwcen thetwo ESs,That differenceis how much the controlling player
ARTILLERY
can modify the base range by,If the range is modified to I l, the action is
If off-board artillery is available, it can be called in by the com-
broken off and the combat ends immediately.
mander to land in the following round, If during the next tum thc
commander's vehicle successfully paints a target, thai targct is autotmati-
Z.COMBAT
cally hit by the antillery round.
Once the engagement range hus been determined, each vehicle (or
squady can fire its weapons at an opposinge vehicle (or squady, Each
A characterwith Orbital Pire Supportskill and the.proper.commu-
weapon attack is resolved individually,but no damage is applicd until all
nicaticns equipment) can call m a Thor strike.The Thor strike will fall
weapons have fired. A round of combat follows six quick steps.
three rounds after it is called in. A Thor strike is made up of 3 separate
attacks, cach catsing 30 points of damage. The churicter calling in the
I.The Attacker declires which vehicle he is firing al.
attack should make an lO-bascd Orbital Fire Suppott check on theround
2a.The Atackertotals his Dx,his Gunmery,Groundskill.and his Tactics.
the stke arives, opposed by the AG and Pilot skill of the targeted
Ground skill, and adds I for each functioning Computer and Sensor box.
vehicle 's pilot Success means that the Thor hit the vehicle.The three
The vehicle commander may also add his Leadership rating to the
strikes can be directed against one, two or three vehicles.
Ariacker stotal
2b, The Defender totals his AG, his Pilot, Ground skill, and his Tactics.
CHARACTERS VS.VEHICLES
Ground skill, and adds the engagement range (sec above) and I for each
of his remaining Shield boxes,He also adds any terrain modificrs.that the
When vehicles are engaged in combal against dismounted charac-
GM feels appropriale.
ters, cach vehicle can fire one weapon per combat round The only
3.The Defender's Total is subtracted from the Attacker's Total.This is
exception to this rule is for anti-persoanel lascrs. which can fire every
the target number for a IDio roll This roll is made for cach weapot
found (in additian to the vehicle's allowed shot per roundy and do 48
system being fired.
points of personal darnage if they hit.
Painting lasers cif any should be fired first Ifa painting laser hits a
CThis limit on vchicular fire is because 6 Leglonnaire combat
target,that targetcan no longer add its Shield boxes to itsDefender s Total
rounds roughly equal one Centurion/Interceptor tum of combat. Char-
forthe restofche round All vehicles havea painting laser,infantry squads
acters may fire according to Comnbat in Legionnaire.)
can paint cnly if the range is 6 or less.
Aplayermay usc somc,noncorallofhisweapons inacombatround.
CHARACTERS SHOOTING ATVEHICLES
Each missile may only be fired once,A maximum of 2 TVLGs and 1
All combar follows the nommal Leelonnalre procedure.Defender's
SMLM can befired from avehicle in any round. Gauss cannon atuncks do
Total for the vehicle isegual to its pilot's AG and number of Shield boxes
nothavethe Shield rating of thetargel added totheDefender's Total,even
(only)
if thc.vehicle hasn't been painted.The atackcr's total for missile fine is
A successful painting aitack on the vehicle (rolled normally,tiol
modified by the rating of any active Vulcan systems, i.e-1,-2,-3 etc.
automatically as for an infantry sguady during any round ncgates the
Remember that a l is always a hit and a lo is always a miss.
vehicle s shielding for thal round.
4, The damage done by all hits on a vehicle is totalled.
Remember that the Defender's Total for  vehicle is modified by
S, The total damage (from Step 4) is divided by the defender's total
5 beciuse of its size. Avehicle lakes damage according to Steps 4-6 of the
munber of Anmor boxes, rounding down, The resulr is the nunber of
Ground Vehicle Combat System
damage points that penetrated the defender's vehicle.

--- PAGE 115 [OCR] ---
AGG
VEHICLESSHOOTINGAT CHARACTERS
WEAPONDAMAGEPOINTS
T a vehicle fures ata character,the resulis are often deadly.The roll
Weapon
to hit follows the Ground Vehicle Combat System (Steps l-3). Add the
Damage Points
character 's AG to his nomal pcrsonal combat modificrs (p. loo).for his
Mass Driver Cannons
MDC8
Defender'sTolal.
MDC10
Ifa chanicterishit,thedimageinflictedts12times thenumber listed
MDC12
for the weapon's vehiculardamage.Thus,a hitfroma Somm shottwhich
MDC-G
does 7 points of vehiculur damage) causes 84 (7 x 12) points against a
chancter.
Electron Particle Cannons
EPC9
EPC14
EPC18
Neutron Particle Cannons
NPC9
NPC16
NPC20
10
Lasers
SL
7.52
7.573
7.5/4
7.5/5
7.5/6
52
574
5/5
3/1
3/4
1.53
1.5/4
15/5
1.5/6
Safe Guard
Missiles
Fighter
20
TVLG
10
SMLM
20
Gauss Cannons
25mm
50mm
100mm
12
150mm
15
200mm
20
Infuntry Squad
91
Anti-PcrsonnelLascr
Monar
Artillery Mission
Thor Mission
EXCE
Mine
'(Range must be 3 or less.3 Clnfantry squads have.4 TVLGs or 2
mortars.)
(Onby usable against Infantry:48 against an individual character.)

--- PAGE 116 [OCR] ---
AGGG
USING INTERCEPTOR/CENTURION
Each time a Pilot Box is hit,the pilottakes IDiodamage to his CN
Ignore Interceptor rules for unconsciousness rolling as a result of dam-
For players who wantthe grealerdetailoflnterceplor or Centurion
age, instcad applyall Legloninairenules fordamigc to the pilotor gunner.
fortheir Lcgionnalirebales,theconversionis simole With Interceptor.
The Familiarily bonus is not used.
a character sGunnery.Fighter/Small Craftand Pilot.Fighter/Small Craft
In Centurion, a churacter's Tactics, Ground skill level trunslates
skills translate directly into his Interceplor Gumncry and Piloting levels.
directly into his Leadership Rating.(Do not use Leadershipskill levels for
Additionally,add or subtnict I to thc character's Gunnery skill for each
Centurion 's Lendership Rating.) Gunnery, Ground skill can be used as
point of DX grcater or less than ll, Any attacks against the vehicle have
a chnracter's Centurion Gunnery skill by lowering che Base To-Hit
amodifier added to it equal to the pilot's AG minus l.
Numbers by 4 (as per the box on page 19 of the Centurion rule book).
Interceplor Piloring Skill Roll are done as 2Dio Piloting skill
Again add or subtract I to thc character's Gunncry for each point of Dx
checks, Flying through asteroid fields and other such maneuvers uses the
greater or less than 1l Any attacks against the vehicle have a modifier
pilot's AG and modifiers as per the Asteroid Piloting Table on page 28 of
added to it cqual to the driver's AG minus  T.
Inlerceplor.For Pushing Thc Plant usclo and add in a -2modifier for
The vehicle's dniver should make nomal 2Dio skill checks for any
cach point of additional Thrust The maximuin lumits rioted on the table
Cenlurlon Piloriae Skill Roll he would make,adding the modifiers listed
on page 16 of Interceptor ire still In force.
In Centurion for speed and vehicle condition.
Each box ofdamagc taken by the Dniveror Gunncrcosts that charac.
ter 2points of CN. Treal all CN danage in accordunce with Legion-
nnires.rules.
VEHICLE CONVERSION
Thee are Leclonnalre Vehicle Combat record sheets vehicles on
Pp, xxx. Also stats for many Renegade Legion vehicles are found in
Equipmenl.For those which aren't included there,or for new vehicles.
use the following procedure to conven them into the Vehicle Combat
System Combat with langer space vessels is bcyond the scope of this
systems use Levlathan to resolve those situntions.
Each record shcet has these entries plus normal entries for crew
memben.
1 Structure (Strc Boxes cqual to the vehicle's Mass/io, up to a
maxinumoeso.
Z (lnterceptor) FTL, Systens, This is che Paster-Than-Light Drive.
When these ure destroyed the ship cannot jump into T-Space, Each ship
with FTLcapability gets three FTL Systems boxes.Ships without an FIL
sysicm get no boxes. Installations get three boxes, which represent their
functional machinery.
3. Shields (Shld).The total of all shield/4o for fighters
The total ofall shields/to for Patrol Class ships and installalions
The totalof all shields but thc boutonSo for Centurlon vehicles
(Give variable shields a value of 12)
4. Thrust, Boxes cgual to the vehiele's Thrust.
S.ArmorcArimrThe total ofall annor/4o.for fighters.
The total of all annor/120 for Patrol Class ships and installabions.
The total of all bur bottom armor/so for Centurlori vehicles
6, Weapon Comps (Wcom). The targeting computer system. Each
vehicle gets 4 Weapon Comps boxes.
7.Sensors (Sen). Each vehicle gets 3 Sensor boxes.
8. (lnterceplor) Life Support (Life). Each ship gets 4 Life Suppon
boxes.
(Centurion) Passengers CPassng  One box for cach paesenger of an
APCortransport
9, Weapon Systens (Wea), One box per weapon. A weapon's Yehicle
Combaldamage is equal to the sum of all of the dumage that it does over
cich range factor, divided by 5.
o.(lnterceptor)SOT.cPilotskill+vchicle'sThnust2.Thiscanchangc
dunins the counse of a baitle

--- PAGE 117 [OCR] ---
ADVENTURE POINTS
Characters in Leglonnaire develop and grow, like rcal people
APS"ALONGTHE WAY
AdventurePoints CAPsiareameasureofthutdevelopmentin game ems
Not cvery session endy with a mission successfully completed The
Adventure points are awarded both for accomplishing missions and
most dangerous and complcx missions bfnen take several sessions.to
adventunes and for roleplaying well They can be converted into addi-
completc. ln suich cases, the GM mieht award an AP or two for that
tional skills, higher skill levels, and improved primary atnbutes.
session s accomplishments. if no Tnal results have been achleved but
Ench player has thctesponsibilityofkeeping trackof his character's
steps have becn taken in the nighi direction.
APs and SDS Rolis (explained below).The playeralso delemints when
he wants to use them to improve his character.
APSFOR ROLEPLAYING
The GM can award APs for good roleplaving or creativity. Nor-
AWARDINGAPS
mally, these awards should nor be morc than S points for any characier.
On the other hand.he can also penalize a player for poor roleplaying
APSFORMISSION COMPLETION
This does not mean that beginning players should be penalized for nor
The Gamemaster should have an idea of how difficult the mission he
knowing the nules or for not roieplaying well. It docs mean that a player
has planned will be and how many AP's he will award for successful
who maliciously refuses to cooperate or intentionally plays out of char
completion of tt, The awarding APs points to characters is totally at the
acier-solvingall puzzles,even thoughhislQis3.orplayingaSsora who
discretion of the GM, but the following guidelines may be used.
is a ways backslabbinghis ncndsshould suflertor itWhcn·APs are
Simple missions usually are awarded Ior 2 APs per characier. A
swarded at the end of a session, the GM should penalize such players
simple mission might be to make contact with an Underground agent, or
someor all of thetrmission award He should notremove APspreviously
pass on medical supplies to local partisans, For the most part, these are
camed,buuthe should feel frcetoaward fewornoncforthccumentscssion.
short tamn adventures with.one major conflictencointcr.
Consider this the Carrot and Stick approach to training gocd roleplayers.
Moderale missions should awurd 2 to 4 APsfor each charucter
involved in the missionThese missions usually are more dangerous.
involving several confrontations with opposing forccs, and more com-
plex plots.Such missions might be to smuggle illegal arms througha TOG
blockade, sabotage a garrison bunker, or alinck and destroy a VLCA
under construction.
Dangerous missions award between 4 and 8 APs for each character
involved in the mission. These missions take prolonged periods of time
to completc,and are very dangerous.An example ofthis kind of mission
would be to sneak onto an occupied planet and organize a guenlla
movement. Also such acis as sparking a slave revoll, kidnapping or
assassinating several high-ranking officials,or sabotaging major instal-
lations fall into the dangerous missicn category.
APs miy be awurdedeven ifthemission was a purtial or total failure.
The following list provides soine guidelines as to how APs might be
awarded in suohcasest
Mission results
APsawarded each character
A bustalmosta total failure
0:or1
Parlial succcss.butnot total
about halrorfullawand
Mission is a total success
full award
Overachievemenl
up to half aeain as many
more points
Thus if a dangerous mission which mighi havc awarded S points to
each chiracter is only a partial success, with some of the ohjectives
achieved, the S is cut in half. giving each surviving charncter 2 or 3 APs.
These APs should be noled down on cach charactcr's sheet as they
are awarded adding to any others that character has already savcd, in the
"AP's'blank They can be spent in any way lisied below that the player
wishes.:

--- PAGE 118 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGNNOI
GGOGOOOO
SDS ROLLS SUFFICIENTLY DIFFICULT
SPENDINGAPS
SUCCESSFULROLLS)
Any time (berween sessionsy u player may convert his eamed but
Every time a chnracter uses a skill,he is practicing that skill. Every
unspent APs into new skills, hiher levels for those skills he already has.
time he uses thcskill successfully.hemight be improving his ability with
or increases in his attributes,A haricier may not be improved during a
the skill But notall uses of a skill are noticeably helplul in improving that
session, even if he hns the APs to do so. When an AP is spent, it is
skill When a skiit has reuched level 6 or 8,thc character can make Tdie
subtracicd from thetotalof(unspenty APs recorded on thc character sheet.
rolls for the restof his life without improving his skill any morc,It is only
themoredifficulirolls,the4nnd 5diccolls.thatstreeh hisabilities with
NEWSKILLS
the skill so that he continucs to.improve.
Any new skill may be bought at level I with I AP
A Sufficiendy Difficult Successful Roll is a check which:
-is successful,indicating that the character uscd the skill correctly.
HIGHER LEVELSINANONCOMBATSKILL
and
Any non-combat skill may be improved by one level if:
sis suficienrty dificat,indicating that the character streiched him
the"SDs Roll blank for that skill records at least O sufficiently
self in using the skill improving his ability with it
dificuit successfud uscs,and
With only 1 or 2 levels in a skill, any roll stretches the character's
APs equal to the value of the new Ievel are spent
ability,so any roll is sufficiently difficul With 3 or 4 leveis in a skill.1
die rolls no longer helpimprovethe skillonly 2diceorbetterrolls work
HIGHER LEVELSINACOMBATSKILL
to improvethe skill,soonly 2 dice orbeller rolls are sufficiently difficult
Any combat skill may be improved by one level if:
With S or 6 levels in a skill.3 dice rolls are requiredWith 7or 8 levels
-the "SDS Roll' blank for that skill records at least 20 successful
in a skill,4dice rollsare required And with 9 or more levels in a skill5
uscs,and
dice rolls are required
-APs equal to the value of the new level are spent.
Required for what?
Every timea character has madeloSufficientlyDifficulrSuccessful
For etaple.Breunshasalreddyimproved his Laser Firear cAill
Rolls with a skill, he can spend APs to improve that skill.
To leel2.Since thar rirre he has Air hrs arget 23more imeyfidicared
On the character shcet, to the right of every skill, is a blank for thc
by23or23martroppouiteLaserFirearmn the SDSRollscolun
column labelledSDS RollsEvery timc a chractcrmakes a roll which
on Ais character sheerj, By apending 3 APs, he can inprove his Laser
is sufficiently difficul forthe level of the skill being checked,the player
Firearmskilfevefto3:Hethenerasesall23marts.when hehas20more
marks.that blank When there are to marks,the player is allowed to spend
he cantmproie theskil totevef4
APs which he has eamed,to improve the skill.
Note that,as the level of a skill improves over time,the number of
HIGHER PRIMARYATTRIBUTES
sufficiently difficult molls decrcases--opporiunities to improve the skill
Any of the eight primary altributes may be improved by one levelif
further come farther and Earther spurt It will probably take several
APsecual to twice the.valueof thc new level are spent.
adventures to record 1o marks.Also note that just because there are 10
marks beside a skill, the player is not required to improve the skill he
For etample.Althed wams fo inprove fer fow Agility from o to7
Improves it only if hewishes lo do so, However.until he riscs.he level
For142x7JAP5,shecandose.
of the skill and erases the marks he cannot star work on the next highcr
level,When APs are spentto improveaskill,all marksare erased andthe
GREATER EDGE
process begins again.
If a character's Edgc tcore is O or less, it may be raised by 1 for Io
Anytime the full value of a skill modifies a check, it is being used,
APs.Thus,itcosts10 APs to raise the Edgc from-3to-2.orfrom 0 to1.
even ifother skills are also modifying the ckeck. (if the GM is applying
Ifacharactor's Edge score is I'ormore it may beraised by L for APs
only part of a skill's levcl as a modifieran option he is allowed.that
cqual to 10 times the new score Thus, it costs 30 AP's to raise the Edge
chcck does not qualify as an SDS Roll.)
from 2to3.and S0APs to raise the Edee from 4to5.
SDS ROLLSIN GOMBAT
EARNING PRESTIGE
Since nearly all combat rolls are I die rolls,measuring improvement
in combat skillsis slightlydifferent.Everyattack roll in combatwith one
Every5 APsearned for Mission CompletiomorAlong the Way"are
of the following skills is sufficiently dificult but it takes 20 successful
also worth I point of Prestiee This increase in Prestige is in addition to
rolls, not just Io, to qualify for the ncxt level of ability.Each time a
ihe APs earncd:itdocsn'tccstAPsto buy Prestige.tlnfactyou ca rbuy
character uses one of these skills for a successful aitack mnrk thc sDs
Prestige with APsyou can only eam i in this way.JKeep track of how
Roll"blank.Whcn thcre are 20 marks,the playeris allowed to spend AP's
many AP's a character has been awarded tfor Mission Completion or
which he has earned to improve thc skill
"Along the Way) next to the Prestige" blank on his character sheet
Blade
Archery
Brawling/Pugilism
Each time it totals S or more, reducc i by S and increase Prestige by l.
Knife/KnifeThrowing
Gunnery (all)
Laser Pincams
APs awarded for roleplaying don'l count toward Prestige, since
PoleWeapons
MartialArts (all)
Proiecnle Fireammns
"good rolcplaving is not the cype of thing that earms prestige fora
Support Weapons
Wrestling/Club
character from his colleagues.

--- PAGE 119 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGOGGGGGL
GOOG
MASTERINGTHEGAME
Gamemastering is like parentingn s one of thosc things that you
There are two curves you can throw in this sort of adventure, First,
haveto leamn by doing.and yoi seldon know until too latethat your per
to kcep the tension hieh, you should be careful when descnbing what the
characiers see:If somcone makes a perception chck, insiead of saying.
fonmance wasn t as good as it could have bcen Fortunately.with Game.
mastering you getmore chances toimprove and your mistakes don't come
back to haunt you.
ncarly as you can tell, there are onily two guards in the pillbox.Hedging
dcscriptionskceps an elementoftheunknown inthc gamcandthatkeeps
BEGINNINGTHE CAMPAIGN
the players on their toes.
The second curve is how you play the opposition. The soldiers on the
other side should have the basic intelligence to avoid stupid mistakes and
This is your first step as a Gamemasier. Decide with your players
senseless death. Face it, ifa band of nasty wamiors was sweeping through
wrhat Cype of Rencgade Legion canpaign you want to tun. Will your
yowrbase,would you stand upandgoone-on-one with them,or would you
players be the key forces in a Fighter Squadron or a Grav Tank Century.
wait until they've gone past your position and snipe al them? If you had
or will they become intelligence opcratives? What side will they align
thcopportumty to backirack them,hoping lodestroy theircscapc vchicle
with--TOG,Commonwealth or Renegade? Once they vc dccided this,
on.thc off chance they lef it unguardcd, wouldn'l thal prevent them from
you should look at the sample units (imn Rank) and let the players choose
flceing with their pnze?
whal slots dhey'll fill in their units organization, thus establishing theu
Chances are very good that your firsl adventures in the Rencgade
bcginningnnks.tOryoucan assign themtheirranksyourself.orletthem
Legion universe will cmphasize shcot and loot sccnanios. If this is the
be rundomly chosen. Then your players can go off and generate their
case, and you would like to subrly encourage your players to try less
chancters while you set up thefirst scenano
destructive scenarios, just let things roll along nomally.When characticrs
Scme of these decisions can be reached in a minute or two othcrs
start geiting chopped up into liutle bits, theplayers come to see firefights
might inke several days, Take the time you need, andeveryone will have
as a last resont rather than thetactic of choice
more fun.
GHARACTERRUNS
SCENARIO DESIGN
Character-based adventures can be difficult to handle well They
require you to create and fully Nesh out a numbcr of characiens For your
Bearing in mind some notion of what you want to happen in your
players to meet These characiers include friends,enemies and neutrils
next gaming sesston, you sit down to design your scenario. Scenarios
people who might help the charucters for a price, or because their ends.
generlly run bctween.two extremes. Shoot and Loot and Character
converge in this particular'situation.They also inchude plenty of imnocent
Runs.
bystanders and suspicious characters who have nothing to do with the
plot,because your players shouldn't beable to plan on everyone they meet
SHOOT AND LOOT
playing an important role in their adventurc.
Shoot and-Loot sccnanios are thc.most basic in the book, Plavers
Character runs ofien begin at social occasions, like a party or a
shoot anything that moves and erab anything that doesn't, hoping their
reception, Social settings provide a muhitude of interesting characters
dice-rollne isbeilerthanyourownsktll withthediccAshasalrcady becn
and cclebnities to mcet and speak with You can handle a little bit of
stated many times, weipons in Legionnnireare verydeadly.so firefights
conversation with one player,then shift to another conversation and then
can end abruptly.
to another, keeping all the players in the game. Ti's important to kocp
These straighifonward conbat scenarios can rcvolve around any
things moving,because one player dominating the game is a quick road
number of.objectives lo give them anoble pupose. Rescuing old
toboredom.Tortheothers
comrades or important officinls from cnemy hands is a favorite plot for
Other characler nuns begin with a business appointment, a casual
these adventures. Other favorites tnclude "eliminate the secrel enemy
convcrsation in an imterplanetary shunle, or a card game on board a
otiipcstor *create a diversion"scenaros in which causing asmuch
starship.Pick a serting whcrc thediscussion can work its way naturally to
desiruction as possible is the onlyobjective Stcaling a prototype of anew
thetnigeer for your adventure:
device can also be deal with in this manncr, but there are.othcr, more
Figuring out whai you have in mind for the playcrs can be difficult
elcgant(and safer ways to accomplish thesame objccuve.
for them to pick up on, so you have to be prepared to offerhints, Having
Because all slug-throwers and spike weapons chanber the same
one of your characters suddeny realizc,"That's rieht you don't know
ammunftion, runnine out of bollets or plastic shouldn't be a problem
nbout ithehijack,do you?"is a good opening fora playertodiscover what
unless,forsomereason,thedeadcan be strippedoftheirwcapons.Skills
this psirticular character knows aboul the subject at handeven if the
like Deniolitions and Lockpickinp/Safecracking are likely to ger lots of
player had no previous idea about any sort of a hijacking
use in this sort of adveniurcso plenty of things lo blow up and logical
Be on the waich for interesting developments that the players
sccunty anangements are a good thing to make sure of bcfore thc gnmc
themselves initiate. In one game,my companions and T found oursclves
begins.
ina sirange town whereevcryonc feared us and seemedto think we were

--- PAGE 120 [OCR] ---
NGGGI
tiotorious local criminals, They also knew we were to be executed by the
PLOTS
local authoritiesin 24 hours,sotheywerecontent loendureoursbusesfor
Few adventures are a stnight Shootand LootorCharacterRun Most
that much longer while doing their best to ignore ds Try as we mighl, we
cornbincelements of the two, When you've can put action and challenges
could ger no one lo tell tis who we wcre or whatwe had done lo deserve
together with interesting chaacters, you ve got an adventure in which the
death
players really have to work and think to win. The only problem with
While.the other players pursued their own solutions toour problem,
combining actioa withcharaciers is thatthey don'talways mix well.Why
Imarehed mycharacler to whni I figured was the most hormid den of
do you nced guns at a cocktail party? Why do you nced coversation
iniquity in thewholecicy.I walked overto thepowertable,icked the
duning an assulr? To havc a siccessful adventure you need something to
bum siiting there out of my chair and ordered a round of drinks for the
bride the eap between these divergcnt parts.
housc on the house daning the proprietor to do something about it.
That something is a plol.
When he did nothing,confiming the irrational fear of our group, I chen
Some people think thut devising a plot is a mystical process, on a
demanded everyoneeulogizemeand mycomrades.Iwanted tohear whnt
level far above their capabilities. How this altitude can survive cven one
they would say about us after we were gone and, in short order.got our
cvening of television is a myslery,since shows have plots, and most T'y
stooy spilled to me amid laughter and great hilarity.
plots are prety linearand simpie.Take television mysteries,forexample.
In thai instance the Gamcmaster made things up as he went along
Either the viewer knows who has commited the crime and just has to
We'd taken.this misidentification of ourselves as the mystery wc were
prove ft, orthe viewer has to put the cluestogether just like the TV sleuth.
mieant to solve. In fact,that was not the objective of the gaming session-
Either task scerns difficult at first,because we don't know all we need to
 was onby a sidelightbut it was grear fun to tackle. As a result the
know, but once the show is over, we can see how the wiriter fit things
session became aseries of chiracter advcntures and we all had fun.In thc
together.
end we got back on track and moved on, but the impromptu character nun
Ploiting an adventure gives youthe same luxury, AstheGamemaster
was well worth being sidetnicked for awhile.
you know who thc bad guy will tun out to be, You know whar it is he
Wants to do (or what it was he did,and you know how he plans to do it
(orhow hedid io.As long asyouknowall that,how difficultisitto break
it dowp into picces ind scaller it around? Which is more difficult: putting
a jpigsaw puzzle together, or pulling it apart afterwand?
The next couple of pages are a quick guide to putting a plot togethcr.
Let's cover sone basics nbout plonting and then we'll nn through the
creation of an adventure that will bring it all together, Ploting an
adventure isn't always going to be easy, butthere is a system that mnkes
ft easier. and sometimes that's enough to get things going.
CONFLICT
The core of any adventure is conflict Conflict is what makes a
favorable oulcome questionable. All conficts fall into one of the follow-
ing classes.
Man versus Nalure Will Breonus be able to guide his Splculum
through the greal stonm raging over this planer? Will the Renegade
explorcrs be able to destroy the alien rat-creatures infesting the aban-
doned space station? Will Ahthea be nbile to get her Baufinin fniend into a
shelter in which he can molt safely.or will the coming blizzard kill him?
This type of conflict pits individuals against natunal disasters and
conditions tharthrcalen todestroy thcm.Aseasonalchangein wecthercan
impose adeadline that adds an urgcncy to any particular mission,Certain
things might only take place during eclipses or when a moon is being
gravitationally pulled betwecn neighboring planets, There can be wild
cheutures stalking a world and killing settlers, The gencral fdeahere is thal
the opposition is mindless, powertul, and often something that has to be
cvaded or sinvived,not defealed
Man wersis Man. How will Brennus and Cafus ever solve thcir
differences? Will TOG Security Officcr Maximus Varonns be able to
catch the mad bomber teode-named Hyena) before dhe temorist makcs
good his threat to blow up a local hospital? Can Aithea cover hcr tracks
before some computer expert discovers her manipulation of certain files?
With Man versus Man conflicts the opposition cones in the fonm of
one person.ora group of people. It is an inierpersonnl conflict in which
success or failure results in victory over or defeat by the enemy.This
doesn't have to be fataltwo parties could be bidding to take over the

--- PAGE 121 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGGOGGGGGGGGG
OGOOOOG
contlict isn't'casy. but one technique is to have an NPC accuse them of
being a hiypccrite.A second is.to show them that they ve been betrayed
by somncone thcy trusted. Both of those lechniques arc bound to trigger
sorne sort of reacticn withintheplyer smind,nndthatshould blecddown
into ihe mind of the character.
On a lesser level, this conflict also deals with overcoming personal
fears and foibles. Having Althea get cver a fear of Ssoraenough to help
one to safety would be an example of this sort of thing.
Man versus the Supernatural/TechnologicaVAlien, Will Bren-
nus, irapped aboard a KessRith-equipped Fluttering Petal, be able lo
fieure out how tomakethe guns operate in timne toshoot down thefighters
bcing sent against him? How can Althea.convince her newly molied
Baufrin fricnd thi he does know and trust her? Whal can Brennus.
trapped by threc Menelvagoreans, do lo convince them that he is an
honorable foe, but one whos giveo the odds, means them no ham?
This sont of conflict expands your game universc as players are
forced to discover things about alien cultures,creatures and technology
The supernatural does notreally play a part here in the 69th ceniury but
how would you deal with a newly moltod Baufnn who atiributes voices
he hcars in his head (ostensibly from his old personalityto gods? In this
universe,there will always be new and diferent things to puzzle out and
discover.
If ycu esamine any novel or movie youve seen recerlly.you can
pick out picces of these contlict They alone do not make up a plot, but
they re the fire that drives it.Without a conflict providing tension.therc s
no hope of danger or suspense Withouta confict thcre s no puzzle to
solve.
Brennus s Sadron isge orderstostrofeallagein rephisalfor
d ferrorist aiack Theorders comedown from Pluidrchos Iwan Bolius.
h'hom Bremus know's isafriend of his uncleScipio Brennns has heen
giventhe honorofleadingtheraid.since hisFamiuseravcarwasrecenthy
same companybui that docsn't mcan il won't be nastya Ofien m
destroved hy a terrarisr bomb,a bomh presuniably intended for him.
adventures,however the result is ncither poliic nor conducivetothe good
Henrrer.he onders f sonlerking is upreprisals neormally consist of
health of one panty or another.
Man versus Society, How can Brconus dey his troops demand to
Fodiagtp/ikehy sispec/s andTosingthem.nor wholesalesaughier
avenge the death of onc of theirowir at the hands of a Renegade tenorist?
ofchlians,cspeciallysince no onewas njured by the bomb.
He thintr to himuref for a oiomcnt and asts the big quesrion, Why?
How docs Coisul Avram Molius defend the rights of a KessRith who Has
Why this villageand whyan I leoding theraid?"
been wrongly accused of murder,in a town so bigoted that no fair tnal is
possible?
MOTIVES
Man versus Sociery conflicts work wellonly when thiecharucters are
Motives provide the answer. lo that most noltorious of questions.
put in a position of resisting and opposing injustice Sociery often is
whyA motive Tmakes senise out of actions, cven random ones.li
represented by ignorant people full of prejudice, a prcjudice that the
characters must baltle. Fighting against progress also falls into this
provides a place to start a search for cues thar can unravel a whole plot.
Belowarelistedanumberofmotives mostcommonly foundin fiction and
categoryand puts characters in a difficult position when they scc
life. Each by itself is quite potent, but any two or more can be combined
progress, in the fonm of TOG afd, that will also demand submission to
TOG.
to provide some really twisted motivations.
In theunivcrsc ofthe Renegade Legions.cooming torealize that your
Love and Hate.These two emotions arc powerful and can drive
side of the struggle might not always be night can lead into this.sont of
people to all sortsofexiremes. The belief that someone means to harn a
connict
loved one is cnough to move many to violence.Blind,prejudicial hatred
Man Versus Himselt, How does Brennus justify lo himself the
often dces the same thing The xenophobia chatred of strungers and
orders he receives to strafe a vilinge? How does he justify carmying oul
strange thingsy running rampant in TOG is a surong force that could
those orders? How does Althea deal with the factthat Renegadesuperiors
account for alnost any atrocity directed or commined against alicns.
have ordered her to jam the securitry ystem of n shopping mall, so they
Breus can fsee anysortofa love or hare motive in theorders fo
can planta bomb thal will kilt thousands?
This type of conflict forms an excellent base for an adventure
srafethewllaee.Mosrofiispopalarionishumdn.There s athing to hare
especlally sincc the resolution of these sorts of things provide lots of
ereand as for lore,well.Brerus doubis the irllaee ts fimle more rhan
growth for characters. Forcing a character to come to grips with intemal

--- PAGE 122 [OCR] ---
OOGGOOOOGI
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGI
Revenge and Vengeance, Thesc two motives are often the basis of
To cover your desire for that account.numbr.you start a string of
plots, The distinction between them is subtle but imponiant Revenge is
thefis.thefis of Mine valuables.The vase.then,becomes just one more
what happens when you get someonc who has hurt you or your own.
ina stng,andwith reasonublecaution you will be freeofsuspicion in the
Vengeance is what you strike for whcn you go after someone who hurns
theftsYour tnue motive fortaking the vase ishidden and,if one of your
those who can t fight back.The reason the distinction is important ts that
own Ming piecesis stolen in the cnme sprec, you willnever be a suspcct.
it is quite possible for somconc to appoint theinselves your avenger
With d sinking feeling n his sromach, Brennits realizes rhar the
withoutyourknowledgcorconscnt.Inlac,theycouldbeutterlymistaken
about the conditions of the situation and be attacking people who have
bonbing afempf o his car couid ell have heer an atiackdirected al
him, Fven  terrorisrs hadn t ptanred it Jf hewere lled,no oe would
actually helped you.
Aaeswspecledhisancteof hdineanwhing todowithheterrorisrstnke.
Icurcomtinuingfxaniple.theouenusiblemorveforthisarckislo
andthereprisalagainsrthevilagewonld hawebeen fustifiedbvhisdearh.
dvemeeamewberofthesgucadran nhofelpreytoaterroristassaulr.Snll.
He,Brennus,would havebecoie reranotherAfricanes toge up Ais lie
Brennus sensessomething deeper anid more hidden wtovating his orders
In service to theEmperor.Just like hs Father
because.in the pasfvah has lead this Sortofatack hisele
Brenasalsorealiesthatthehonoroffwne leadotthestrafngrun
iay beanorherdtrehpr fogerhh killed.Worseer.Jwancoulddeyever
Jealousy and Envy, Jealousy deals with the inability to tolerale a
havtneewen Brenna rhe orders o lead the fie resulring fn Brennus s.
nival, while cnvy is what you feel when you wish you had the status or
disgrace ahd court martial if he sunwvet.the raid.
wealth or good looks ormate of somconc elsc. These are useful motives
in a plot and ofien can account for guick mood shifts in jlted lovers or
Self-Preservation. Being afnaid that somconc plans to harm or kill
subordinates, Given a chincc lo embarrass Brennus, jealous Caius might
yoi is a strong motive lo act Sometimes the only way to prevent
agree to shoot down his.flight leader. Just as importantiy,think of the
something from happening to you is by taking pre-emptive action your-
trouble that could be caused by an envious Rencgade agent who was jilted
self People ofien get very defensive and quite nasty towards anyone they
by Althea when she began totake an interest in a young lmperial officer...
perceive as a threat. Paranoia, the irrational fear that people are out to get
you, has lead to muny more bizarre murdcrs and other crumes than there
Brennus rejects jealousyarenvy ax the monarion for theFaid,Why
is spacein thisbook.to descnbe.
hejealos orenousofdirt fanmnersTheyeeofnothig morethan heir
hames dnd fiestack.They hae othing.as far as he can tell.Furthers
Brenmis, ds he finds himsel deeper and deeper fn a Wery nasty
more.he notes mith disgiustjf an Were.jealous or ehwiouus o.these
siurion. hegins to make a fist of the people he s gor to uatch our for.
people.strafing mould be foo quict for them.::
Carus.he ambirous and evious lintle erp From his academy days.
Mouldloetoshoorhim dounoewyoranothertther nafieherar
Gireed,Greed is,verysimply.the desireformore andmoreusually
asa nitaess fortheprosecution.van obvous/y hds sdnething ta gain in
moreand more wealth Thisdesire is a very strong motivation,but mcney
paucm from Scipioorisacringatddupeofhisncle,Aadhisuncle..s
is not the only'thing people can be greedy for. There is an old saying.
heapdrrofal/thisdnd.fso.owcahardevidehcebefoundagainsrhim?
Everyman has his price.The coin withwhich to purchase him might vary
widely.from powrtosex loimmortality toeverlasting fame-eventoan
Passion, Calculation and Insanity These threc mental states can
obscure colleclion of cherished thimbles, When you get into collcctions.
affectall ofthemotives listedabove.Acnmeconimitted in the heatofdhe
collections of any sort--things or cvents or experiences greed can also
momentisacrimcofpassion. Passioncan bewhatdnvessomeoneto hurt
bc obsession.but the cnd resultis the same. The collector musthave itand
a loved one,out of jealousy.cnvy,or revenge.More broadly,any action
will do whatever he can do to add ir to his collection.
taken on the spur of the momentany impulsive actioncan be classed
aspassion
Brenhus stants torejecr this miorhe becaase all thefarmers hae fs
An inieresting thing about passion is tht in both TOG and the
theur land,bur thatttegers analarm in his hedd.He recallsthar his incle
Commonwealih. passion is a legal defense. just as self-defense is a
onice mentiorredm possinsa stupld farwinge illage thar he hdnted to
defense for shooting someone, I is usually labelled Temporary Insanity.
futn intod resont.batwhosrcollectieouncrswoaldntsell aul berause
A calculatorplots outhis actions in great andexquisilc detoil Often
ir would aterly disrupr ther May of life.Could ir be rhar his uncleuds
his plans arc incredibly cold-blooded A muun who seeks out vulnerable
pushing his friend Ian into makiug the reprisal? If so, had his uncle
Women, mrries them and then murders them for their insurance is.a
somehow fakedtheterroriststrike Andifhis elehad doneiHhyaa
Calculator. So are a killer-for-hire and the person who hires him So is a
thebomhplanved inhisgracar?
planetary politician who would hire someone to kill his ncphew and
prompt an attack on a fanming commtine.
Misdirection.This motive can be among the nastiest, in that it ofien
Insanity isdistinct from the temporary Insanity of passion, Insanity
reguires a hideously cold and calculuting schemer.Assume thal you must
is Impontant because it accounis for some of the stranger crime sprces on
absolutely have a Ming dynasty vase becausc,written on the bottom ofit
record.magine having to track down an individual with multiple person-
in pencil, is the number of a hidden bank account, You didn'r know the
alities who.only kills onthosc rare occasions thut his honicidil person.
number was there when you sold the vase,and you know the new owner
ality comes to the fore! Just as difficul, try putting together the clues to
would ncver let you see the vaseaeain. In faci,sincethe account number
connectasociopath's string ofbiznrrekillings when they re sprad across
is the only tdentification needed to claim the account,if the new.owner
a dozen worlds, That could be a tough nut for players to crack.
even suspected what was going on.he could get to the money aheadof you
by reading the number himself.

--- PAGE 123 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGGG
It is important to notc that just becatuse someone is crazy doesn't
huysrhe landfrom zhesfvorsin areneroussetemetonakeamiends
mean hecan't or doen  act with a cenain amount of loeic The reasoh
for hisinsanenephew"Afer all rhe toy's been throueh,what Hith the
Jack The Ripperdissected his victimsmay havemade sensetohim.Tothe
RencgadesArilite hisatherthen trywing tokill Aim,"sdys Scipio,irso
Fest of us it just looked crazy, but to him tt seemed like the logical thing
wonder hendpped
fo do. Likewisc.a murderer who always skeiches the insignla of the
Thtessence.fo wiakra compicaledplor,we vemired hwo vegy suple
Witches of Defiance (672nd Minerva Pursuit Wing) in hlood on the
plostogerher.Wefirsr havy themastermind,Scipto,ark,How do/kill
forehed of his victimsmight be honorinc the Witches in his own way,or
hwbdswath opestoneaWhen hisfursraftemptarkiiline Brehnasfalls
he might be sayine that he will continue to kill until the Witches have
Scipioweiehrhe alermatives dndcoesmpwithrhe bestsounon he can.
disbainded.
Adie the hoy lead he raid and die or hediseraced.Allowine yourwllains
fochanee plansthcaase ofthecircuutances.orkang them dothines
Ler sger bacttorfis basicplorBrenus hashcvered.roloots
loconerthetrfrall,ts dgoadwaytoeepa sceorio lvehyandentertain-
a Brehnlasashiun is anderine hem toleadherid on rhisvillaee to)
desroy heillage amd 2 kil or diserde Brennas.Thts gies hyo plors
Aiehry moredticu.but jstas cnterltaining way foconpficare
foFollawler sIookatearhfndependetlr.
d simplcploriatohave one ormorecharaclers worting arcross prposes.
Destroy the VillageThe neason for the wllage's deshiwerton is so
Tinagine,in theaboescenano.fa compatriafof Brennus believed/wan
ScpoAricanxcanhyirchedpyad tariftatoa estraiwpake
khew lowhich penal cotony herfather had becn sen,and nder Whar
lotsofmoney.Todcopphshthis.miakestHvh/vanswhiletaorder
asrumed mane and frilmped ap char ge he had been incarcerated. They
the assanh.To ehe han a rearon to order the assantrScipio hired
hoth haie the same goalger fo han one dy or dnorher but Brennas
Voeoeranaficerfh an sconiandro pfanta bahn hisnephews
Mieht wdrt him a bit dedder than woula prove asefl to her.
Rraicar.The homhb gcer of and the blame is plared on Renegades who.
In a warianon on rhar them.perhaps there acthal/y fa some Rene.
aceordhiag to hhan, have been tracid to this wiaee.
eade acrrvity eoing onin tharvilagc.Supposethe Renegade wnderxround
Killor Diserdce Breanns.Whv? Tan ecs nothine ort offtCains.
ariemp o sahoraeerhe nut heading out orthe strofing rm.Theymigh
houere,conld gel promoled and would bereveneed rpn his enemy
chemically fear he Genium-Arsenic cnstats in Brennas Spiculum so
Could ir hethat Scipio hired Caras to pla he bomb.withouf speciwng
hisgunsmitf burnoitafieroneburz,which woud ledehin at themercy
where.and Caius fook  upon himselfo kill wo hinds ith one stone?
ofanangeryCaias.Thestrafngruiehralsodestroya secret Reneeade
Possible butnrkehy.asthatwoulawake Scipiowamerable to future
Pase, which wonld wiale it tnpossible for wan fo disgrace Bretnus.
hlackmal byCaiasRea thewanaalan'samhition.that Houldnof he
forctng Scipro fo plan oui anorher course of action fad giwng your
Wise.So Sripto defniety wanfed Brennus dcad and ou.harring thar.
plawrs anorheradvemure fo look forward toy.
Avs hmcout-matialed Forthestaehrerofinnocenrs
Seipio's bhasic pioblen ts thar he rerented and hared his older
brorher Manu Brennsfather. While Sciplos fame Ads surpssed
thatofhisdead brherScipioecrpimchoy hisannuccessrising from
sympahfor hin cuer his brother sdeath,Scipio wasdppoinledtafujei
Marcws'Term on the reeiondfcoumcil and has bee reelected thereafer.
but the ghosraf his hnorher hants hm still.J forts area'tmentioming
Maus the ewaneline orer hs hrianrson,Brenws.
Themastmaddealnethiag abot all efrhesisthatScipto ows that
he helpedeeate Aisbrother sleeend byhaving hin ulledand framing the
Reneeodesforthe Job.Hes fet fehrinetheleeendhecaised to be born
and he seer Brennus as rhe leaewd rebora For this reason he Wunts his
ephewdedor.berrwr,disgracad.DtserareSeimiofeels.wlldesbvy
theleendofMart'wsAnicanus.
Sonarthwhoescenio bosdonn totsths-Scpio.owafrd
by rreed fehine a wholevillaee and Scipio,motivated by jealousyand
cwt.owttokill hisnephew.Eitheroecyrheseplos.takenalom.world
besrmplednd hinar.When the homb wentaf in Brcnus racarthe
fmesieationwndophredly lookedatcirvonewhowowld hane a reason
 wunr him dead Scipio, the bereaedwmle ahradysirippedof his
brorher.woua hardy br a ikeyranidatefor sespicton.
As for the land,Scipracar hardybe cdsfasa crininal here,either.
He's idde an oferand rhe people refased ir.He ll he coning backwirk
aovherafernodorht/salliathereamofdiscsstotandnegoniato.
Whe nolld hedosomerhine to giie.rhe fitere focution cf his resort sch
a hd eputaridnWha sensemould tharmak?
Scipinfnds.hiwsef siintpreih.J Brenusdiestntheraid,Scipo
Mepsnobnptheladandwrntheplaceiloa.monanieadforhisdead
brorher andnephef Brenns siurvhts and is cot-martialedScpio

--- PAGE 124 [OCR] ---
AGOOGGGGGOO
SUBPLOTS
The next set of items to locate in your building are the power plant.
Subplots are bits of storyline in which charactcrs obtain something
phone exchange box, fuse box and any non-standardopenings like doggic
they desire or gradually get dragged into something they didn't want to
doors.or air conditioning vents, Characiers always want to blow up th
know anything about The rlvalry between Brennus and Gaius is really a
first three items, which generally causes trouble when the GM has
subplot that Is running through Brennus life. From time to timc Calus
forgotten to locate them. Wouldn't an arctic research station have a
says or does something to reminds Brenhus that Calus thinks he has a
fumnace or othct-source of hcat? Thcn be sure lo include it The non-
score to scitlewith our hero.lt's nothing major cnough to build a whole
standard openings are imporant because characters always try to sncak
adventunearound,but itwill popupoftenenough tomake Brennus plaver
in and around an installation-Jusi as moths are drawn to candlelieht,
cautious whenever Caius is around
chanaciers are-drawn to sccret passagcs and chinks in a building 's armor.
Subplots are teasers for funther adventure.They grow up out of the
Other facilities that most buildings reguire are bathrooihs and
most improbable circumstances.lmaginc,forexample.that every time
kitchens, Ir is a poor barracks that has no sanitary facilities.(And sewers
your characters get into.a brawi in the seedier section of town, one
areanotherpath thatcharacters liketotakewhen sncakins intobuildings.)
particular lmpenial officer is the one who pulls their fat out of the fire, or
Likewise a kitchen is a logical partofany place wherc pcople supposcdly
balls then out of jall after they've been arrested. He never says anything,
live, Besides, if vou don't have a kitchen, how can one characier ever
just shakes his head and leads chem back to base. Afera while. your
poison your cntire garison?
characters will be doing whaleycr.they cin to find out why hc never
Now that you've placed the various and sundry eritrances and
reports them and,if they know he's worthy ofrespect,they ll aisodo
pathways in your building, you should give some thoughi to security.
anything they cin to geta good word out of him.
Having a clear field of fire ts gencrally considered a good idea for any
Ifan NPeasksacharacler ifhisnameis Wilhelm Johnsoneorirthe
nachine-gun nests or watchiowers.Having an outer and inner fence with
NPC takes a poke ar'a chaacter becaise he says he looks like Wilhelm
gates around the coner from each other is an easy way lo inhibit hovencar
Johnsone,the character will soon be trying to find out who this Wilhelm
bombings, because the vehicle would have to run parallel betwcen the
Johnsone is.If Alhea discovers one of Scipio s plots to kill Brennus and
fences before it hit theintenor gate,That would provide plenty ot timeto
Sends him a cautionary note signed "a Friend,"Brennus will start doing
shoot at the bcmber's hovercar beforc il entered the compound Cof
his best to discover who wrote the noie. Having other notes sent in the
course, the reverse holds true when troops are trying to flee the doomcd
samemannercould becomearunningelementin thecampaign,especially
base.but that snot somethingmost folks think about when building thcir
if Brennus ignored the advice once-got beat up.as a resul, then got an l
fortresses, in gaming or in real life.)
told you sonote from a Fnend."
Sneakier stuff should also be considered Are the voice aind data
More serious subplots can and should be woven into each character
communication hnes monitored? Are there any secret communication
from the start Brennus obviously has a halred for the Renegade under-
links in and out ofthe base? What sort of burglar alnms huve bcen setup?
ground because n Killed his father. His desire for revenge is what
Do they have motion deteclors, infrared pick-ups and smoke detectors?
prompted him to follow the course of studies that he did. In  sense he is
Do alams blare aloud,or are thcy silently piped into a command center?
searchie for those who murdered his father, and given thar the Killing
And where is that command center? Who knows sbout dhe command
ook place cnly 1S years ngo.he has a chanceof revenge.This desire fues
cenler and how vulnerable rs it toexplosion?
his willingness to pursueclucs about his father 's death,and might prompt
Finally,the opposition nceds to be considered. The average trooper
him to go so far as to kill his uncleif he leamstheLruth
should be slightly less tough than the average character.Renember,your
As a Gamemaster, if you take the time to identify the major
players' characlers are heroes, so they deserve io be a bit tougher than
characters you have in a given area and examine their interests and
rnostottheoppositon.
In keeping with the idea of shielding your ultimate villain, develop.
motives tna given situalion, you will begin to.sec placeswhcrc simplc
plois can become more.complicatcd, While there's ncthing wrong wiih
ing a nemesis forone cr more characters is probably a good idea You can
suraightforwurd, linear plots, complicaticns can be fun too.Weaving
crcatc a characler who is quitc compctenl-an anti-hcro to thie heroic
subplots in and out of adventures also provides background and life for
charactersand place him in the scenario from thc bcginning.or you can
your world, When you keep your subplots rolling trom adventure to
develop a character who always manaes.to survive.retuming time and
adventure.plots can spring up spontaneously,and that can be a great heip
again. Describe onc of the cncmy soldiers as blonde with a scar.running
across her face.ifshe survives one batle.bring her back.You might begin
lo your game indecd
to personalize her. feshing her out, noring her name and bits of her
ARCITECTUREANDPERSONNEL
background for consistoncy's.sakc.
Mostadventures includeamapof some sort. Many begin witha map.
COk.thisiswhcremy party iswhatcan happen tothem here Graph
CHARAGTERSAND PERSONALITIES
or hex paper is preferred for a map because, if noching else,they provide
Many Gamemasters find itdifficult tocreatecharactersthat haveany
lines that make your map-a bit neater than freehand drawings on a blank
depth or life to them There are several solutions to this problem,The first
sheet, In buildings walls lre alwoys a good fearure, and doors and
is to patch together a characier from bits and pieces of your fnends'
windows should dot the walls in appropriate places. Acommon mapping
personalities Yes, just importing a friend into the future as a non-player
error is to put sonething Iarger nside the buildinethnn could possibly tit
character is permissible. but you haveto be careful how you handle him.
If your.fhend sees himself as the heroic type, but you use his counterpint
through its doors. In oiher words,when you draw an aircrafygravcrafi
hanger.it needs some big doors to let the vehicles stored there get in and
to point up his phobia ofspiders and embanrass him,you ll loseafriend
outcasily.
For this reason, the patch approach is best, since no-one should see
himself and get upset.

--- PAGE 125 [OCR] ---
GUGGGGGGGL
secotdapproach is to impont churacters from books,lelevisioior
movies,Ifthe import is recognizablc-a local private investigutornamed
Magnumus, or aderelict spucc ship called the Soace Minnowrwith a
two-man.crew and frve others onbodrd,including thc nchestnan inthc
County thc take-off can carry nnd ndd lots to the udventure. You ll be
drawing uponthe personalities already known for thesc characiers.Even
if your playersdon't recognize your inports,youknow howthcytalk and
howtheythink making your job of playing them easier.Again, using a
patch-work approach with this basic material works too.
The thind techniquc involves determining a simple set of data
conceming thecharacter,Thearcas ycu nced toconsider arelisted below
While they might not'seemn very importanl, they force you to work cn the
chiracterand that gencrates more malenal in and of itsele.
Iy Name and physical description (height.weight, eyes/hair/flesh
color,scar, binhmurks or tattoes and how thcy got them.
2 Nicknamend how.hc got it
3 Favorite color.food beverage and type of music.
4 Education.
Sy Marital and family 'stutus.
6y Special abilities or notably high skills. (Include his occupation
here.)
7y What is the character's greatest accomplishmcnt in life to himc to
otherswho know hin?
gyWhatis thecharacter s next goal in life?
9y Whomn does this charncter lovethe most in the word, and whom
does he fear the mosi?
oyWhatare this charicter'spolitics?
It'y Why would your charactens be interested in him?
You will probably supplement this list with other quesiions that are:
important-to you and vour gamc. Decidine what a charactcr's favorite
color is might seem nonscnsebut it can help delcrmine litilethings like
what kind of clothes he wears, or what:coloc gowa mnkcs a panicular
woman more attractive to him. Ir helps you fillout the tirtle detaits of his
lifethat make him morereal and that,after all.is ycur goal.
Ouestion clli addresses how the character will interrelate with the
player characters in your game, The answer to this question may shift
fromsessionto sessin,asthecharactcrassuncsamoreorlcss impontanl
roleintheworldofplay.Forexampleacharactermightstartoutasablack
mnke an unbelievable character if hc jusi hands over the disc upon which
market guirunner with Renegade ties who is a convenent source of
he believes his life depends. Making your chuaraciers work hard io
weaponry.Later, when TOc aecnts uncover him, he might bccomea
convinco Bob to hind it over will makewinning it all that morc satisfying
friendinncedof help.
The best way tooccomnplish this can i be written as a nule in this or.
Ofien the cnswerto this final question can fonm the busis for u run
any other book You should udopt Bob's character the samc way an uctor
Why will Bob the Bum interest your characters? Because he's the last
adopts a role. Force the playcrs to corivince you, Bob,that the holodisc is
survivor of a TOG unit that heiped Ivan.the Butcher kill off a political
safe in their hinds Decide for yourself how much you reinclinedtotust
nval Ivan think 's he's dead, and Bob is afrid Ivan will be coming for
themn and the things thcy say.Prescnl all the arguments Bob wculd give
him. Bob's got a holodisc of Ivan pulling the trigger on this rival and he
them and begin to act intoxicated if thcy ply you with dnink.-Make
mistakenly believes it is the only reason lvan hts not comefor him
demands on them for money or transportation or weapons or whalever
The objective for your characters in dealing with Bob, thcn, Is to
Make them eam it.
deteminewhohe is.whyheissoscared.andcoaxtheholodiscoutofhim.
The default way to get the holodisc comes down to the players
Winning his confidence, or eeiting hin drunk enough to spill the beans
characiers making checks against their Swindling or Seductionor Lead.
about he holodisc is going to requirc good roleplaying, In is not likely to
ership skills, This is a cholce of dice rolling over roleplaying but some
beeasy.butifthecharacterscan convinceBobthatthey can put lvanaway
GMs and players prefer in, In this case Bob might give them rambling
if.they tave the holodisc, he migh just.conc across with the i.
clues they have to figure out to find the item. Either way,the first key.is
As mcntioned carlir.the opposition should be played intelligcndy.
to have fun. The second key is to make your players work for the end thcy
Bob, forobvious reasons,is going to be as evisive as he can be.He would
desire,not just hand it to them on a plater.

--- PAGE 126 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGGGUGGOUGGGG
DURINGTHE RUN
listtime you hit a fast food joint for dinneri Be surc to havea fomily froo
thc oext plunct ovcr siing ina bocth wih braty kids makng irouble.
Havethe help be yacuous littleautomntons and mukeupsomestrangetoy
One of the most imponant things a good GM does is io let go of his
for theirkiddiemeal deals,if your gaming group ate dinncr at aremarka
scenario,lelting hisplayers take it wheretheywantGamemasters,asthey
bly similnr placc before the scssion, you can even renin your dinner at
put together their adventures, should have a clear idea of how they want
them.providing them the chancetowalk overtothe brats"fatherand deal
to proceed,This is one of thefew ways a GMcan be sire lo add in all the
with him the waythey wnnted toearlier.
details ncccssary for ihe successfut conpletion of the mission. Unfortu
As you do this thinking cn the fly,take notes and get help from your
ntely.manyGMssubscquently try toforcetheir players torigidlyfollow
players Take notes so thal you can have MeDonius there the next time
this outline, giving them no leeway-cr worser punishing thcm for
thcy nin around the samc comer.You ll soondiscover vou ve builta chst
deviations fromi the pncconceived 'shining pth for the adventure.
of stock characicrs who can pop up lo provide clues. Saying."Brennus,
As a player,  recall an advcnture being run in a superhero.system in
you look upand see Timon Jontorrewalk throughthcdoor.You know him
which I realizcd mycharacier was hornibly outclassed by the opposition.
as a discipline problcm who was.at prep school with you beforc the
I saw rightfromthe startthat thcvilainswewere focing would smash the
academy lf there s any black markct aciion on weapons here,he ll know
herocs,and once wehad been taken prisoner.the scenario would procced.
about it" Not only have you provided an opportunity tor some roleplay.
Because my characier was still in civilian clothes phone booths bcing
ing,in which Brennus might remember some incidentthat can fom somc
few and far between ln that dimensionhe was ahie lo convince the
of Tiinon's background,but you havecreaied Timon.After Timonshows
villains he was a thug looking for employment and thereby avoided
up a ntimnber of times, he cpn become a central fieure in an adventure.
getting thrashed like his friends.
Getting help from your players is also useful.A player might say.1
I hung around for the two hours it took to complete the comnhat,
nced to find a place where l can buy'some spare parts for my hovercar.
cnowing all the whilc what ihe outcomc would beThe Gamemaster had
You ask, what kind of plce are you looking for Legit A dealership?
a sciplan forthe adventurc,and hestuck toit Whalwedidasplaversmade
A parts store, ora chop'shopthat wnll scll you hot parts foru low price?
no difference and, at the end of the adventure, a super superhero arrived
The player 's answers-to these and follow-up questions get him to
to prevent the ultimate disaster we had been unable to stop:The experi
design a plnce that will pcrfectly suit his needs Generally this give and
ence was less than satisfying for cveryone but the Gamemaster
take provides you with a few hints that hclp make the place new and
The first rule in mastering the eame boils down to this: Take your
uniquc,butif nor.so what?-Youve giventhe player prccisely the sort of
enjoymentfrom providing an entertaining experience for your players.As
place he's looking forand he 's happy.Note down its key features for later
long as the players have fun, you ul have fun too, lt doesn't matler if the
referenceandgo onfromthere,
players appronch thc problem from anangle that isentirelydifferent fron
Don'tcxpect the Tact that you're making things up on the fly to
yours as long as they're having fun doing what they are doing.
remamn a secret for very long Most players can tell eventually, but it
It is possible that giving the charucters their head in a scenano will
doesn'tmatier.very mtich as long as youobservc twocautions, You have
mean they end up running around in the wrong direction, but this is not
to be consistent in whal you make up and you have to keep everything
asmuchofa problem as itmightscem.Iftheplayers arebeing entertaincd.
halanced.
you can let things go. If they are very much off the point of whut needs lo
Consistency is alded by your noteslf you decide she owner of the
be accomplished, yet feel thcy are on the fieht track you can call a time.
MeDonius is a Ssora naned Ssciatica,you should keep the same owner
outand note,wCuys I m havine fun butthisisa tad off the mark Wecan
for cach visit. If you forget,and a player reminds you that it was Scciatica.
continue this if you want, but I just wanted you to know you re running
not SSossocy,who owncd it lasttime around explain that Ssciatica was
further afield than you need s (This aiso mieht be said when players are
bought out or died or had law'trouble. Then make a note of SSossory's
in themiddle of dcciding your plot is a bitmorecomples than itreally is.)
namc.
Srepping outside the fabricof the fantasy is something that should be
Balance is a bit tnckicr to handle but it s not as difhiculit as itmighi
avoided as much as possible. It breaks up the sense of wonder and
sccm al First The first step is to remember that an average starting
adventure. A good Gamemaster works throveh the game, rathcr than
character has a CN of i.This means one good hit with a Tercre heavy
outsideofit.providing clues throughcharaciersandencouniers,Address-
assault rifle and an unarmored chamncter is dead Therefore you can see
mgouranswrsandconimentstocharacters,insteadfplayers,isa god
whyadozenriotcopsin Vertex armnorAF12with Tercrenilesrandomly
way to preserve the illusion of ithe world in which your gane is sci.
rousing charactcrs might be seen as overkill. Two thugs with spike
Assuming you want to handcontroloverto your players,bow do you
carbines guarding an ordinary newsstand ts just as inappropriaie.
do ii? What do you do when they turn the'comer ruther than coatinuing
Personally, I feel that characters chould always havc a chanoc to
down the street as you had pladnedz The answer is simple Fake It. You
survive the stupidiry.of the player pushing them around, This means in.
irc the only person who knows that you have no idea what cxisis around
essence, that I ulways try to provide a way out of adinost any situation.
the next comcr. In the time it takes for a player to say.this character is
cven ifitis nothine more than the Megadeath Luck Saving Roll Ifthere s
walking overto look down that strcet. you can come up with a half dozen
an installation that descrves to be protected by a century of soldiers in
different busincsses linine the block. You can put anything on that street
Vertex amor with Terere nfles, c playcrs will be aware of how
and you'll be the only one to know you re making it up on the fly
prolccted it is Irthey get captured,they'u have a chance to escape before
Thinking and ncacting this quickly comes more easily to some than
they're exccuted. And iftherun still ends upa hormblemessfor everyonc.
others, but thereis a simple trick toit. It's an old wriiers trickuse what
al least they'll be aware they could have handled things differently.
you know, f you put a fast food resiaurant in the nest block, make it
providing hope for greater success-in the future.
McDonius Soy Burgers and people it with the sortof help you ran into the

--- PAGE 127 [OCR] ---
GGGG
AOGGGGGGGGGGOGGGGG
At times,a player will come upwith a really ifty idea thal requires
Agood Gamcmasteralways providesa villain whocan bedealtwith
a judgment callon your partrwhat he wants todo isn't strictly according
While a Hitler-like individual might be the Overlord of a particular
tothcnules.butitmakesgoodsense.Oftenthisconflictreducsitselfeven
county.the players are unlikely toeverdealwithhimdirectly,Youshould
funhertothe rules versus something that mukes a neatstocy,n such
provide more immedinte and subordinate villains, like Scipio Africanus.
cases, if at all logically possible make sure a good story wins out over
Brennus uncle,to behandled by the characters.Funhennore,if you want
fatihfulness tothenules.
to prolong a particular aspect of the canpaign, these minor villains can
For exaiaple,suppose Ivan Boliusthe bloody-handed butcher of
havetheirown hcnchmen To get at Scipio,forexample Brennusmight
Buchwald's Woridhas hoppedin aconventional jetand isroaringdown
have to work his way upthe chain through minorthugs to Caius, his buddy
the nunway trying to take off.The only wcapon at hand is a laser pilum
Irom academy days, and then from Caius to his uncle.
takcn fron a dead guard and Brennus picks it up, He heads out onto the
The best villains are evil and cruel, yet imtelligent cnough to shield
nunway.iniending tothrow.irthroughthecockpitwindow.cotakeoutthe
themselves from the illeeal actions taken by their subordinates.Scipio is
pilot. He's already said he's taping the "on button down so the lascr will
just such a person, cmploying surrogaies lo do his dirty work, He does,
beengaged ard aid in piencing the plane.
however, have a weakness, and exploiting that weakness is what could
The playcr makes his roll and hits the jel Unfortunately, the atack
bring him down into thetrenches where he can be destroyed. Discovering
only does 13 points of damage, That becomes 2 points of vehicular
that weakness and taking advantagc of it will not be casy,but then the
dumuge Crounding generously, which s cut to I point after we tokethe
game wouldn't be much fun if things were easy.
jet's anorinto account Theplayer rollsonedie,butfils to geta6,which
As noted above.your players must be made to feel a part of the
would have ihdicated a pilot hit In fact he rolls a 4 which indicatesa
adventure's resolution  The soluiton described above isn't the only one
thrusier hit and thercby reduces the fet's thnust from I2 lo La.
that could have worked,Brennus pilum could have damaged the landing
Big deal Ivan flics off into the sunset, his jet trailing some smoke.
gcar so the plane crashed when lvan tried to set down again, Even more
Lousy story.
dramatically.the weakened glass on the windscreen could have blown out
As the Gamcmaster, wanting an tnieresting siory.I announce the
when the jet reached high aliitude, nesuliing in a devastating deconpres-
following."The luser pilum shoots from Brennus hand It heads straight
sion, It could have damaged a flap or punctured a fuel cell or wrought
for lvan's faceand you can sce his eyes grow wide as the glowing orange
crucial damaee inmany cther ways.
hcad spirats in toward him, Sparks fly as thc pilum hits the windscreen.
Exacdy.what thc pilum did isn'timpontant.nor is how itcaused Ivan
and it gouges a furrow through the glass, but skips off the ship's armor.
to dic, What is iniportant is that thepiayers know thcy brought Ivan down
You failed to kill lvan *
They came, they saw and they conguered
I'dwaitamomcntortwotoletthepliyerfeel abitdisappointed,then
Remcmber that they need to be the heroes--it's their story,not
I'd rollanother coupleofdice,appeartocheckthem,and add"However,
someone else's,The characters eam Prestige and Famc to reflect the
the jet's outboard engine screams as it sucks the pilum in, Turbine teeth
things they have accomplished, but the players take pride in the fact that
arc sheared off and erupt through the cngine cowling.They pepper thc
they succecded in overcoming the scenario you created You provided
plane's body.and the whple craft slews around as one engine outnaces its
themwitha challengeand theymetit They have cveryrighttofecl happy
dying companion, The plane careens off the runway,bounces its nose up.
and you should feel good that your adventure provided them with so much
then, with the one engine powering it, flips overon its back.You dive for
enjoymenl
coverasitexplodes intoaraging infemnoand rains burning fragmentsover
Yes,every GM wishes once in a whileto populite a fortress thal will
theairstrip."
wipe out all the pesky player chalacters, but remember thar for you.
Well, the description might not tum out thar lunid, and probably
winning isn't killing all of your players characters-it's endertaining
woold involve using an empty soda can to show how the plane swings
them while you have a good time yourseif.To be a good Gamemaster, you
around, but the gcricral ida would remain thc same,The.move Brerinus
don'thavelokillasinglechuracter-youonlyneedtomakethecharacters
player iried was a gutsy one.ltdeserved a chance of success, but the nuies
think they re going to die. Through good descniption and a poker Tace, you
of the game prevented that from heppening. Even if Brennus had used
cun convince your players their homeworld will be paved by Monday
Edge points toredo a roll, it would have mnde no differences the pilum
moming if thcy don't manage to find and produce the Impenial Edict that
could not puncture the plane's flesh and even one hit from the pilum
countermands the work order.
would not have killed lvan outnght
Rememberthat99% ofthegame is going oninside the mindsof your
t was Important to let the scenario end there and it was Imporant to
players, Take the time to describe the seiting in detail Let them hear the
let Brennus and his allies have a pan in the victory Certainly local
hoots and screamt of creatures they cannot see through the jungle's fog
authorities could have scrambled an Inerceptortoknock the jetdown.but
Descnbc thc ashen pallor of a local merchant whcn n lmpenal officer
unless Brennus croneofthe otherplayers was in the Interceptor s cockpit.
tells him his dauehter has bcen kidnapped by Renegades Don t sparc
the victory would be hollow They had discovered all the clues needed to
detail when you paint for.them the aftemmath of an Imiperial Search and
pierce Ivan's secret identity and they flushed himn from hiding, If they
Destroy.mission that sailed through an agncultural communc mistakenly
could not bning bim lo justice, ora miore pcnmanent form of reckoning.
believcd to be harboring cscaped KessRith prisoncrs, Give the players
their victory would have been stolen from them just as it was in the
everything they nced to imnmerse themselves in your world and a good
superhero expericnce Tdescrihed earlier:
time will be had by all.

--- PAGE 128 [OCR] ---
GGGNGGGGG
GGOGGL
AGGGGGOGOGGGG
OOGGG
RENEGADELEGION SCENARIOS
Listed below.are adventure seeds for play in the Renegade Legion
universe.They are far from inclusive of all thc possible ideas available.
bul they imight spark an idea or provide insight tothetype ofmissions you
can run. The lists are broken down inlo three catugories (Naval, Legion,
and Intelligenceiand are nisoccdcd (C-a scenariofor Commonwealth/
Renegade Legion characters, T =a scenario for TOG charaetcrs How-
ever, don't be bound by either the categories or tho C/T codes. If you see
an idea you likc, usc u.rcgardiess of which cateeory or code it's assigned
to
NAYAL
Ambush.Aconvoyofuransportsisimoving thoughasystem.Asmall
corvete is acting as a mobile cleaning house for all troop and naval
plucemcnt infonmation.Yourmission istotnfiitratethat vesseland secure
the data, without being captured.C,T
Arms Smugeling. You must supply tesisuance fighters on an occu-
pied world. Posing as Free Traders, you must get past a TOG navy
blockode and get the supplies down to the planet C
Base Raid, Posing as enemy troops, yoo will land your fighters on
a naval base or airstnp.and sabotage the installation C.T
Heist. The enemy is unleashing a new class of warship into the
county.Withoutknowing the newship's capabilities.your mission is to
caplure this prototype and pilor it back to friendly territory, C.T
Long-Range PatrolYour recon forces have disappeared in a
remote system Yourmission is to cnlerthe system and discover thefoll
exent of the enemy stirength thcre, living long enough lo report back.T
Sensor KnockoutYouhveadelicatemissiontoinfiltraleasolr
system and cnipple its T-Doppler and N-Space sensors.tf possible, you
must smugele yourselves aboard the VLCA lind sccure it in tinme or the
amival of reinforcements, You might cven b using a caotured naval
vcssel for this type of mission.C.T
INTEICENOE
VLCA Memory Core RaidYourleam mustinfliralea VLCAand
Anti-Terrorist AclivitiesA dangerous rebcl cell has wrecked
seize its memory core intact, since il contains recent orders to encmy
enoueh havoc perhaps it s Renegade funded:The time has come to
flects,ChT
intiltrate this unit and destroy irfrotnwichinT
Dissent. Your mission is to infilirate an enemy worid and stir the
LEGION
population againsi the Commonwealth and toward TOG,emphasizing
Last Men StandingTheCAF is pulling off ofa world or outpost
the Cummonwealth's dangerous alliances and TOG's security,T
Your mission is to hold the position so the last transpods can get away.
Gel Agent of of a World, Your intelligence nelwork has becen
then fight aguenlla wir on the newly occupied planet c
broken and a key agent is being hunted by ihe Lictor. You havelo find her
PoW Rescue Several thousand of youreonrades are being held in
before theydoand smuggle her off worla.c
a POW cnmp.Your team must penetrate etemy limes, free the prisoners
Organize Resistance Movement. Your world Is now TOG prop
and get thein back to fnendlylemitory,C.T
erty.but you iniend to make them pay forit You must organize civilian
Raid behind enenny lines Your team is eoing to penetrare the front
lines and'make a runnine stnke along the enemy rear. sabotoging com.
leglons C
municaticns,andcommand quarien.C.T
Rccovery of a Lender An admirat or general has been inken
Recon, Thc enemy has set up a supply nexus not fur from the front.
prisonerand is held on an enemy worid Youmust get there.penctrate thc
Irsheawily forifiedanddefended Yourtean mustfinda way insideand
prison, recover the leader. and escape. C.T
sabotage it from within. Extra credir for actually gening some of the
Sabotage GA Mining Operalions, To hir TOG hard, you have
supplies byck across the Tines,C.T
decided to sabotage a GA mining operation.hopefully cutting production
Revenge Strike A Minerva Legion has harissed sour forces forthe
formonths.c
lust tiine.Your team is on a gnudge-mission,to hnd the rival unir and
Eliminatfon. The Last menibers of an hocidal race are being
eliminate it If dhat isn't possiblethen at least capture its commanding
shcliered onh Commonwcalrh WorldCaeiar has has orderedthalthieruce
officer.T
be cntirely destroyed for the gond of ah other spccies Your job is to
cxecule his orders, T

--- PAGE 129 [OCR] ---
ALIENRACESTABLE
Another list, this one lo help GMs decide thc rmice of a chumcter
randomly cncountered Like the others, use it for suggestions or when
imagimation temporanly fails.This is actunlly three tables,onereflecting
the racial distribution in TOG, the second giving the likclihoods in a
Commonwcalth encountcr.and the third for non -altened neutral or free
worlds, Roll 1Dlo. if you roll  o,roll once more'since Result lo ts
subdivided.
Other
Human
Hmn
Human
Human
Homan
Human
Human
Baufnin
Baufnn
Human
Baufrin
KessRith
Human
Naram
Naran
Human
KessRith
Ssoru
Naram
KessRith
Baufin
Naran
OSS
KessRith
Ssora
Vauvusar
Free Trader
1-4Vauvusar
10
14Ssora
1-7 Ssora
5.9 Zog
5.9Naram
8-10 Naram
1.Menelvagorean
Io Menelvagorcan

--- PAGE 130 [OCR] ---
GGOGGGGGGOGGL
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
URBANENGOUNTERS
WILDERNESS ENCOUNTERS
While there are few sentient ruces not descnbed in this book.
This list.ot urban encounicrs is by no mcans cxhausive Lnkc thc
other lists in this chapler.it'smeantsimplyas a guidetohelpa GM decide
interesting flora and fauna are found on most worlds Below ts a list of
what he wants to happen ncxt Thesc cncounters aren'l all hostile -they
whatplayers might runtntoon variousplanets.Aswiththeotherlists.this
don'tnecessarily reguire immediate gunplay.With some guick dicework.
list is Tar from cxhaustive--its results should be tnken as hints and
the Gamemaster should be able to generate a legion of encounters, Roll
suggestions,not commandments,Roll 2Dio.
2DI0:
A"legendary" creature long believed to be eatinct.
Ito3Lictor.8times in 1o theyareundercover--roll another
The ruins of a'settlenent that lndicutes there mighthave been
eniry on this listto sce how they have disguised themselves
a nalivc sentient race on this world.
A Clanissimi Senator.Is accompanied by 1 to Sbodyguards
A well-hidden enemy listening post in full working condi
Tto S aerospace pilots.
tion.
1to3 tankers.
Seritient poachers aftera creature of an endangered species.:
I to 5footsoldiers.
The crashed nemnants of an aerospace shuitle/fighter.
A high-ranking civil scrvant
A To hunter/killerteamfltoSmembers scouringthearea
A locally well-knowa merchant.
for Renegade suspects, You can understand if they mistake
A young male or femnle Half of ihe tiine he's a thief and is
you for them.
Hidden locator beacons indicating the area is used by smug
being pursued by another entry on this list. His loot may or
may. not be visible, Otherwise he's just an innocent kid.
glers as a drop point
Even she s female..odd he s male.
A herd/pride/creature wandering around
10
10
A young female.3 times in 1o she's the daughter of a local
Citizens on an outing in the wildeness.
Farmers using public land to graze their stock.
mcrchant.
12
A lowerclasscharacter.Even.she'sfenale.odd he 'smale
Local militia performing military exercises.
13
Unremarkable except for mood see Mood Tabley.
A youth groop on a hature outing.
12
Anadult female.Sihes in lo,1to4children are with her.
A tryst involving one or more people who would find it
13
inconvenicnt to be recognized in their compromising posi:
An adult male.3times in o.l to4 children are with him.
A locally fanmous aclor. Even, she's female.odd he smale.
ton.
3 timces in lo is trying to.remain incognito.
A new species of native fauna.
16
Somcone runored to be in connection with the Renegades.
Smugglers loadmng/unloading conirhbund
7times in io,it's onlyarumor.
A weapons.cache with 1Dio military grade weapons and
16
2Di0 x 200 rounds of ammunition per weapon, It is booby-
A low level underworld figure.
17
I to.5 of the local enforcement officers.
truppedand requlresa3DioDemolitionsskillchecktoavoid
18
A high level underworid figure. Is accompanied by. 1 to 3
tripping the anti-personnel mine protccting it.
18
bodyeuards.
An enemy soldier downin the area, He is rather despcrate
19
19
Sameone.with Rencegade Underground connections.
A friendly agent on the run from hostile forces
20
20
An agent with the Rencgade Legions, If in TOG or neutral
An enemy infantry bantalion which has just bcen covertly
space,halfofthe time.this individual is afugitive.otherwise
inscrtcd intothc.arca.!
aspyin placc.
MOOD TABLE
If the GM doesn't havea clear idea of how a non-player character
reacts, the Mood Table gives a list of possible emotions, Roll lDio.
Suspiclous
Friendly
Hostile
Scared and/or Fueitive
Crazy
Haughty
Confused andlor Lost
Paranoid
Dven and/or Obsessed
Preoccupied and/or Neutral

--- PAGE 131 [OCR] ---
This section is an overview'of the 69th century.It begins with the
An cxiract fron the introduction of the first report to Azunikal includes
galaxy'srccent History (pp.140-147) from Mankind's perspective, and
these.commenls:
then continues with a discussion of the three major govemments domi-
.Themultitude ofalien lifeforms thatexist within the galaxy would
nated by manthe Terran Overlord Government (pp. 148-151),the
be virtunlly timpossible to cathlog in these pages. Many worlds have
Commonwealth (pp.1S2-1S3y,and the Merchant Reces(who are more
developed life, with widely varying results. Indecd some species (the
commonly known as Free Traders (pp.154-155)), Then a condensed
Naram,for example)preceded mankind into space and even established
senies of reports to Azurikal (Chairman of the Board, Holy Cartels of the
a colomy on Earth Other alien species like the Huldice and the Lungdo
Merchant Races]covers theoher seven race which are doninant in the
approached sentience, but TOG's Diaspora policy insured that their
galaxy (pp. 156-176)the Baufrin, KessRith, Menelvagoreans,
brecding populations lacked sufficientdiversity toenablethem to survive
Narim.Ssora,Vauvusar (who actually hail from the Lesser Magellanic
as an independent species, (Or, as Renegade critics have charged, they
CloudiandZog.
were exterminaled throueh willful neglect.)
The funal pages tpp.177-192y cover Shannedam.County ini more
Thc seven'species examined in detail are all sentient races who have
detall,withahistory ofthecointyandan analysisof seven ofthecounty's
evolved to the point whcre they are capable of space travel. With the
Wodds: Business Mission Caralis, Ciria, Defance. Gustaviv's
cxception of the Zog and Menelvagoreans,the species atained space
Regret, Thapsos,and Tiven Each anlysis includes a mapof the world
travel without assistancc, while these oher two had taken steps in that
and complete listing of its solar system s other bodics.
direction that reguined only final research and development to complete.
These spccies have been selected becaute they have the widest distribu
tion among the star systems and are the type of individuals most likely to
be met while conducting trade throughout the galaxy...

--- PAGE 132 [OCR] ---
GGGL
Galaxy
Map
Tog Governmental Divisions
and
Independant Governments
Kessrith
Sso
=Independent Governments
- Terran Governments
50.000 Light Years

--- PAGE 133 [OCR] ---
GGGGOGGOGGGL
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
THEHISTORY OFMANKIND
The history of man is often scen as a series of great triumphs ovet
The pilot described T-Space in poetic lerms thal created an instant
adversity.This is undoubtedly becausethe victors writethe history For
World-wide desireto travelto thestars.He spokeabout thevirginalmilky
the victors to paint their struggle m anything less than glowine tenns
whitenessof that realm,and he.waxed eloguent about how different the
would be the sheerest nonsense,yet it would be the first step toward the
stars and theuniverselooked al such a distancefrom Earth.He proclaimed
merging of history and truth.
himself a citizen of the universe and vowed to lead others to ereat
What Tollows is a history of mankind beginning with its first'stcps
discoveries.and Ladventures,Editors Noler Elliot TCourant the plot
In interstellur trayel, Struggle is a common themeagainst cncmies real
denied ever having made any such statements, Subseguent research has
and imagined, within and without from the dreaded KessRith to the
shown that he thought the trip was boring and, "stars is stars, right?"
entropy which is wearing downallof neality. n many wavs it is a grand
Various goveriments created his glowing statemcnts about the trip in an
tale,bccause mankind is an amazingly crcative species, But the story also
effort to recruit volunteers for space colonies.]
hasils tragieelementsas many ofits creationsaremeantfornothine but
This opening of the universe to nearly instantaneous travel between
destruction.
Eanth and thencarby stars sparked mankind's fervor formanifestdestiny.
In 22io Dr Wayne Marshman of Northwestem University discovered a
SOTENTFIOADVANCES
wayto warpgravity,whichledtothedevelopmentofartificialgravityand
gravity compensators.Thismade spacetravel and thetemafonming of new
worldsmuch easier. Mankind s expansion began,
T-SPACE
Man'sfirst steps into interstellar reaims cane in the middle 2ioOs.
P-COMM
when Hsieh Hounveileda new branchot mathematcsPolydimensional
The 23rd century provided twomore very imporiantdiscoveries that
Non-Euclideun Geonctry. He tied it closely to the phvsics thcory of
furthered man's stellarempire.The Phase-Polarization Communications
Superstrings, and through math which was both bnliant and becutiful.
System (P-Comm) was developed by scientists who were investigating
provided a proof for the existence of 496 particles, including lachyons.
what happened to electronagnctic wave polarization. By nunning one
Hsieh Ho theorized, based on his proof,that any of the 12 dimcnsions
wave filier atright angles to another,the scientists effectively trapped the
posited by his research should be accessible from our nonmalspace. Infact
he stated thut one of the dimensions, which he labelled Tachyon Spnce.
cncrgy from thc wavc,Whilethey knew theenergy could nor have been
destroyed, it was not until they passed a tachyon detector over the
or T-Spstce, should allow faster-than-light travel.
experihent that ihey discovered the energey had been transformed into a
Hsieh Ho hikened travel in T-space to riding an escalator beside a
flight of siairs, The escalator, he noted, camied onc along faster just
tachyon nlux.
The scientists then set up identical pairs of the wave filters on Delta
bccause of its flow ratc While many scoffed at his idea.he found that
Alpheccai and Omicron Tau tind patched them into conventionml short-
private industrial combines were interested in financing his research, By
2175 the UNSS Magellan-operating under a license from the U.S.
wave radio transceivers. Though the distance between the worids was
approx imately 20lightyears,the messagesent from Omicron Tau reached
Nuclear RegulatoryAuthoritywas ready to make the first trip into T.
Delta Alphecca 43 minutes and 12 seconds later.Thc messagc moved at
Spdce.Littlemore than acockpithitched toa fusion reactor anda T-Space
46lightyearsperminute,whichis almosttwiceasfastas currentships can
drive.il headed away fron earth and vunishcd into T-Space.
travel and onlya Tricticn as expensive.
The craft successfully rehurmed in a week Ir entered T-Space at
As the P-Comm technology developed, it became coimmon Stalic
ooo3Ca velocity ofroughly.S0 kilamelers persccond.In T-Spacethis
Increascd proportionally to the distance of.the units involved in commu-
was boosicd to an equivalent spced of 17 billion kilomclcrs per sccond or
nication.butrelaybroadcastshclpedcutthatproblcmdown.Shipscamed
.Oo185 lighryears per second (that's a lighryear every9 minutes or about
P-Comm devices, and even though they could not be used in T-Space.
Ss.oo times the speed of light), lts 3-day outbound joumey,thcn,took
they proved very usefulfor system communications and keeping track of
it 480 lightyears from Eanh, After a day spent orienting itself and
ships, The only.renl drawback.was thar at a.practical limit of 20.oo
establishing proof, the ship retuned.
ightyears per standord month for delivery,scnding a message from coo
Examination of the retuming ship and its cango revealed some very
end of the human empire to another was still unwieldy and slower than
interesting facts. The pilot-an astronaul who had volunteered for the
desired
mission-and the other living creatures on board seemed to havesuffered
no illetfecis from the joumey.with onepossiblcexccpticn.Each of them
GRAVEYSHIELDS
radiated a slight amount of energy that is commonly known today asTau
The second discoveryofthe23rd centurywas madeby G,Greerson.
Shimmer.r!
Subsegucntiesting determinod that a fiving cneature could survive
A technologist with a mnnufacturer of anti gravity devices,he had been
72S hours in T-Spacebeforeabsorbing enough of this energy to ciuse
studyimg why anti-gravity tanks seldom took hits.on their underside. He
catastrophicresuts.Tau Shimmerblecdsoff m a  to l ratio.sotimc must
discovered a curious inieraction between planetary gravity and the anti-
gravityfield,thatreated alayerofgravitypressure,deflecting shots and
be spent in pcmal space to counteract the effects of T-Space.

--- PAGE 134 [OCR] ---
GGOGGGGGGGGGGGOGGL
AGGGGGOGOGGGGGGGGG
causing clectronic devices to detonate premafurely.
tan took.butnoonc.Naram orHuman,metanotherscnticntrace capabie
Greerson quickly designed and perfeciat a device that'could create
of spuce travet.
dantl
this sort of"shteld"without the intcraction between
All pnocceded well:seutlements had begun to grow in what is now
gruvity. In testing the prototype, the shield drew in as much power as the
Shannedam County by the ycar 3ooo. All of the hardline Millenialisis,
local erid could eive itand collapscd in on iiselE This killed Gteerson's
thwarted at the turn of the last aaillennium when the apocalypse dido't
assistant and caused Grcerson to reduce the power requiremcnts through
occur. had broadcast dire wamings. When the Baufrin hit Shannedan TV,
an intermittent nickering of the shield on and oft The flicker rate
in looked as if their predictions hnd comc tnuc,
detenmines how much power themachinc would drawand is detemincd
The Baufrin,best described as spider-centauroid creatures, tenified
by the number of power/no power.cycles in a minute, The higher the
the setilers on Shaniedam IV.The 2nd Armored Cavalny was relocated
number, the belter the shield's protection, but the grcaler the need for
to the world while human envoys sought and finally found the Baufrin
leaders-By 3oioa treatywas signed between Bauifrin.Naram and Human
POWCr.
Girded for warmankind began an inexorable crawl through the
epresentutives that made the Shannedam district something of a joint
galaxy- While anthropologists and explorers occasionally claimed to
development area Although some voices still procalmed the Baufrin
have found signs of senticnt lifefoms on various worlds, it was not untd
monsters and demons, the area prospered and a strone alliancc grew up
2461 that mankind encountered its first senticnt aliens, whicn the Narum
betwcen thethreeraces.
made themselves known tomankind,Siill,they proved to be so lose lo
The next rwo millennia passed peacefully and quietly, Human and
Human, and acknowledged the Mayans as acolony oftheirs on Earth,that
Naran orces discoveredand skirnished with the KessRith in a numbcr
miany people took theirexistence as a sign that God mcant for humans to
of systems. The bulky, reptilian nliens seemed to respect thc technology
conquerihcstars.
nd bravery of the huimanoid races, so things remained at a standstill on
In Fact, by 2488, Tniballsm had reached  peik. In this philosophy.
thai front. The Ssora likewise tested the mettle of thesc maked apes, and
the Nariin became the Lost Tribes of Israel who had so plcascd God thit
found thema fearsome foe Mankind for ts par beean to sce thatit was
he had takcn thcm o another planet which, undoubtedlywas a wuy
not the only race thar believed in manifest dcstinya Humans began to do
station to heaven The Nanim, who had almost succeeded im destroying
whar thcy could to develop the worlds they had already taken and curbed
their own racc severaltimes over.had only spoityrecords about theirpast
their expansion.tMany consider this the quasi-pacifistie influence of the
anddidtherbesttokccpout of thewholephilosophicalfray,Atthe height
Walden movement within heNaramand Human races.)
ofthis lunacy theTribalists formcd an unlikchy bond with anthropologists
who claimed thut the races were so similar that they could not be from
different backgrounds They stood uniied against more hardline Cand
some suspected, secular humanisty scientists who claimed that just
because lighining had never struck the same spot lwice didn' mean it
couldn't
Thc abality of Naram and Humns to Inteibrecd cuused somprob
lens inreligiousrealms,bul a council ofrelieiots leaders voted todeclare
such unions holy in the eyes of God Thcy also sccrctly aereed lo bcgin
campaiens to conven as many of these pagan Nuras as they couid.The
Naram appeared amused by the effort, but bearing in mind the zealous
campaigns waged to save the Inca and Aztec people.politely declincd to
let missionary ships within their realm.
T-DOPPLER
Working with Naram scientists, humans soon.discovered a way to
detect ships moving through T-Space,A spin-offofthe P-Comm system,
T-doppler (so named becauseit imvolved painng a P.Comm sysiem with
a doppler radar unin) produced a picture of the surrounding sphere of T-
Space, Not only did this make space traffic control easier, but it also
provided the military with a way todctcct incoming warships before they
amived, Before the T-doppler,surprise had made small-scale ruids pos-
sibleand profitable,butrow onlylurgeinskforcescouldaffordtothreaten
wholeworids.
The ncxt haif cenrury eontinued in relative peace as humanily
consolidaied its holdings and slowly expanded outward, This growing
empire,in many ways similartothe 19th-century British Empire becamne
known as the Human Roj. tWhen the New Roman Empire was estab-
fished,claiming continuity from old Rone,references to the intervening
Human Ray were removed from most history books.) Byagrecincnt man-
kindexplored beyond Naram iemiiory,along the Onon m ofthegalaxy.
Again, signs of lifeand possiblc civilization were spotted on the worlds

--- PAGE 135 [OCR] ---
GGGGG
OOGOGGGGGGGGI
THESNOW PLAGUE
SLAVERYAND REVOLT
The Snow Plague was the most horrible afnliction ever visited upon
The len worlds to which humanity.was limited bccame little more
munkind It is commonly believed to have been bom from a spontaneous.
thin additional brecding pcns forslaves used throughout theKessRith and
mutation ofthccold virus-hcnceits name--butvirious rescarcheshave
Ssoran empires, Humans occasionally resisied thcir masters, but putting
cast some doubt upon this explanation,Even allowing for TOG xcnopho-
down their rebellions wasn'difficult Even though Humans.looked back
bia, it is not out of the question that the virus was genetically engineered
with pride to their history, clinging to the glones of Rome, the Raj and
by KessRith scientists lo weaken Human and Naram forces.
other Human successes,they did not have the heart to fight weeponless
The evidence to suggest this perfidy is often suppressed in the
against their tmasters.For 200more years theyendured utterand complete
Commonwealth and among the Renegade Lcgions because the Snow
slavery.
Plngue still occasionalby flares up and kills people who foolishly believe
Thedawn ofihe 6othcentury began with the Ssoran corporation Sey
it tobe a thing of the past What bafmed scientists for so many ycars is that.
Tem Aerospace building a Factory and testing facility on Eanh, They
the illness Is actually causcd by two vinuses One fs actually a human cold
deemed itmore efficlient tobulld the craftncarthcir Humantestpilotsthan
Vinus that results in mild symptoms,then remains domant in the infected
to to shtp the slaves out to other worlds where they would soon die. By
person's system. The second virus actually transfers some of its DNA to
6so9 the factory was in full openilion tnd the conmpany of human pllots
the first virus, turning it into a riging sickness that atlacks the centnal
hicknamed themselves Death Express  in reference to their high mor-
nervous syslem and uterly disrupts the body's abiliry to function.
tality rate.
Furhemorc.the iniiial virus has been narowed down to iny one of
At the same time two other developments took place that would
a dozen struins thiat made the rounds through Human and Naram wolds
dramatically change the balance of power in the galaxy Alexander
in the twenty years before the outbreak of the Snow Plague,around Sooo.
Trajan a rerired Bngadier General of the Terran Militia, began to
The trigger vinuses,which were isolated and numbered at six, were
organize a series of paramilitary pageants.Taking a cuc from his father,
introduced to a wide number.of words,all of which could be considered
Simnonalso the father of the Glorious Rome Movement--he pattemed
to be on the KessRith border with Human and Naram holdines.Altemate
the unifonms and organization of his athletic legions after thosc of Rome.
theonies suggest the Ssora devcloped and delivered the vinis or that.
This struck a chord within human hearts and the mcck battles staged by
possibly,the trigeer virus is a mutation of a virus found in the Vauvusar's
his troops became a media hit
Magellanic Republic.
Television, long supposed to be the new opiate of the masses.
The Snow Plague spared no world lt Is believed that Bo of the
broughtthesespectacles intothe homes ofhumans everywhere The Ssora
human population at that time perished, Even Earh, which had under-
noted a conesponding drop fn civil disobedience and rebellion, Con-
taken stringentguarindineprocedures,wasdevasiatedTheNaramdidnot
vinced thcy wereon toagoodthing.theSsoracncouraged Trnjan and gavc
suffer as badly because thcy initiated harsh but necessary quarantine
him whatever help they could. When he noted the human fnscination with
restrictions,regardiess of theway it tore families apart and left the dying
Berial conbat-a drama based on Baron von Richtoffen was very popu
in corpse-ndden cities whilethe healihy moved cut into the countryside.
larand reguested the use oftheDeath Express in some of his shows,the
Co this day thc Naram are a bit lccpy of citics,with thcir anxicty level
Ssora quickly agreed, CSey Tem got free advertising, so thcy supplied
rising n proportion to the filthiness of their sunroundings.)
equipment and paid the "nctors"for their time.)
The KessRith wasted no time in taking advaninge of the human
race's devastation, whatever the causc of the plague. They were openly
VLCA
surprised when they met resistince, They initially said they had believed
What would have alanmed the Ssora and the KessRith had they
the worlds they overran to be unpopulated, as if they had allacked by
known about ftwas a technological breakthroughtniggered by research on
misiake, but that did not stop their war of conquesiWorld by world.
P-Comns.One ofthe P-Comn creators had noticed an echothatoccurred
System by system,the KessRith Empire devoured the Human and Naram
when a P.Comm transmitter was pointed nt a P-Comm receiver.This
holdings Human resistance broke nd humnity or thit part which
scemed fairdy insignificant until the carly 6s60s, when Professor Neil
couldafford todosoretreatedtoaconeofiensystems suoundine Eanh
Stomtra of the University of Washington was working with Polvdimen-
o lick·ilswounds and hcales
sional mathematics and realized that the number of tachvons crcated in a
By 633L humnnity believed it had recovered enough to once again
P-Comm transmissicn.did not have the mass to fully compensate forthe
layclaim to itsfomer realms.Human troopsheaded outtofonmcr colony
ienergy used in the transmission.
worids, only io find KessRith and Ssora setlements in full bloom. The
Using two P.Comms with incredibly large reception anays, one on
KessRith and Ssorasaw theamivaloffree-bom humans,ofwhon they'd
Earth and the other on Pluto, Stomtra sent a transnission to Dr. Jessica
seen nothing for overa millenniuim,as a revolting crimc against nature.
Sultra.These reception anays had bcen fitted with tachyon blocks, so the
CThere were by then plenty of humans on other worlds, all slaves..They
normal tachyon fiow was disruptedin short,they should have been able
rosetothechallenge,fevelingintheslorioustalesofaheoldwars,andbeat
to hear nothing.What they did hear was the micssage coning through loud
mankind bnck inio submissicn. In was not kind or pretiy. but it was
and cleart When they calibrated atomic clocks and timed the
complete.
transmission 's reception with the activation of the tachyon blocks, they
discoveredthat che messages were tuaveling much faster than ordinary P.
Comim messages.

--- PAGE 136 [OCR] ---
GOOGL
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
Stomtra theorized thata ncw cype of particle,one he called a Hotron
They captured and refined two KessRith cruisers which then were
in menory of Hslch Ho,was produced when the clcciromagnetic wave
used to make raids on Ssora targets of opportunity.The two ermpires
Was converted intotachyons. Thehotrois he furher sumised,managed
refuscd lo believe edch other s claims ot innocence and arrayed them-
to shoot through yetanotherof thc dimensions making dp the Calabi-Yau
selvesagainsteachother,The fact that che cxact identity of these phantom
reality manifold, Onty,with a very large reception aray could one be
fleets could never be pinned down did not matter to the KessRith and
ccnain ofcaiching enough hotrons to receive  mcssage.and for interslel-
Ssorathcy had their after-battle teports and knew whar had happened.
lor communication,the aay would havetobe very largeindecd toallow
What iheydid not realize, of course, whs that Trajan's VLCA
for holron scaiter and eravitational deviotions.
network could Iransmil troop and fleet mnovement messages instantane-
Alexander Trjan realized that VLCA Very Large Communica-
ously between worlds,then uptohisfleervia P.Conim.Trajanoftenknew
tdions Amay corhmunications were an incredible boon, Whereas a
where the enenny would be before they did, so he could vanish at will and
message from Earth to Epsilon Eridani took over an hour by P- Comm, it
strike wherever they were weakest More than once the Human fleet
took less.than.2 seconds by VLCA.In proctical tems.this meant thal
wouldentera systein,drawa response fromnearbysystems and jumpinto
Eurthn troops would have prior notice of KessRith cr Ssora troop
a lightly defended spot that-the reinforcing troops had just left By
movenients and could react to such threats instantlyThe fact thal this
carefully watching and calculating Tau Shimmer for the enemy.Trjan
technology was kept frohi min's alien masters Is really a triumph of
managcd to stay at east one jump ahead of them.
human solidanty over human ereed
Alexander Trajan also realized that he could not win alone.Taking
Editor s noter Appuendly the KessRith actually were notified of
ah incredible risk, he entrusted the secret of VLCA technology to a
this development, but they ignorcd its potential, The expents in the
numberof agents who were senit to Human slaveworlds in the KessRith
KessRith military were uterly bamed by what litile of Stomtra 's math
and Ssora holdings. There thcy direcied the creation of VLCA facilities
they spwand KessRith physicists refused ro review anyithing based on
that brought these Hunmian worlds into the network. They increased the
Hsleh Ho's Polydimensional, Non-Euclidean Geometry because thcy
flow of intelligenceand told Trajan where there wcrehotspots of potential
chauvinistically clung to their own variation on that study.l
rebellion he could fgniic against the KessRith.
TRAIAN'SLEGIONS
THE COMMONWEALTH
Trajan's sports legions continued io gnow in size and favoramong
One of these hotspots was thestretch of the Onon Am in which the
the people. Trajan directed that VLCA niodinications be made to radio
human race had first met the Baufrin. In the days before the plague it had
telescopes on ail ten himan worlds When all the cquipnent was In place
refenedtoitselfasthe Commonwealthand ithad stubbomlychungtothnt
and woiking wellTrajan waited for inteligcnce reports that gave him a
titleas if it somchow made KessRithenslavementmore palatnble.Trajan
window for rebellion and look his chance
staned ninning weapons and supplies to the Commonwealth Under.
Trajan armed his legions witholda Dicesium-Tellurium crystal laser
ground, As more and more KessRih were pulled out of the Common-
rines in 6565. Though thiese wcapons were of an obsolete Ssona design.
wealih to deal with the Ssora conflict te Commcnwealth revolted and
they proved effectivc enough for hin to overpower the crews of scveral
declared Itseif independent
Sson sitarships, The crews.as it turned out, had bcen invited as the guests
That and an independence movement among the Naram opened the
of honor ata Legion show,and had jumped at the opporiunity for an on-
KessRith's cycs to whohad bcenthe tnue instigatorofthecurent galaclic
duty vacation, In very short order Trajan had lo working Ssona starships
War.Becausethe KessRith code ofhonorwould notallow thcm to suefor
and no one was the wiser for his having captured them.
peace with the Ssora until a number of scores had been sertled, the
Historians have long wondered where and how Trajan oblained the
KessRith fodnd themselves assaulted on  number of sides. Faccd with
Ssora ninles, Ar vartous limes it has been suggested that they arrived
being ripped apart by four enemies, the KessRith made a bold move.
aboard a Naram fnee trader ship sinengthening the alliance between the
They wihdrew from the Commonwealth because they knew it was
two sister laces, More tecenl rescarch has sugeested thai the Ssora hnd
nearly as stronig as the Earth forces. They quickly set to work negotiating
beeh selling great quantities of these antiqunted weapons to the Vauvusar
a separate seulemenl with the Commonwealth, which was successfully
who reportedly needed them in a wai in the Magellenic Republic. at has
concludedin 6584,overAlexanderTrajan'svery vocalobjections.Trajan
becn speculated that the Vauvusar provided the weapons to the huniins
decided -as the KessRith had anticipatedthat whoever was not with
tomake imcnds Fortheir unwritting patinthe Snow Plaguc fifindeedthey
him was aeainst hin and imnediately cut off all ams shipments and
transmitted the trigger vinus) or just as a socinl cxperiment to sce whal
suport to the.Commonwealth.
would happen the Vauvusar and their curiosity being legend in the
galaxy
THE NEW ROMAN REPUBLIC
Trajan, realizing he could cont on no one but himself and his own
DIVIDEAND CONOUER
people,increased discipline on the popuince of the newly freed/captured
The Ssora-KessRithalliance had always been at best,shnkyTna an
worids,Ai his request the human worlds were politically rcorganized
decided to exploit the suspicion between these two races, The VLCA
along the Roman model with a Senate as the uttimate authority, but the
network was abuzz with neports of neurby KessRith neel sinengihs, and
Senate immedintely choseTnjan as their First Consul This gavehim,for
Trajan sclected a likey target from the human worlds. With the Death
all intents and purposes, absolute power as long as the war continued.
Express (and their better current prototypes) londed in the belly.of his
Trajan had some very forceful ideas about how one could become a
flagship, Trajan sent his Ssora deet to the system known as Rourke's
citizen in this new Roman nation He felt quite logically after all he'd
DrifTheres using thc Ssora language and tactics, the humin eet
becn through, thal citizenship was something caned through scrvice to
imbushed and smashed u KessRith taskforce.
the goveniment To his mind, this meant fighting the cncmy.Those

--- PAGE 137 [OCR] ---
opposed to the war or his goveriment were less thani human and were
consiened toa slave classin which theyhadonlythe nightto life. Because
of the influence of his wife, Sophia Tyrelli, Trajan also added a plebiun
class of freemen whocould eurn a citizenship. but othcrwisc were
politically powerless. In effect, those born into a class would probably
spend their entire life trapped in that class.
Repression of'treasonous troublemakerswas harsh but effeclive
The Naram, after a 20-ycar struggle,minaged to throw off the yoke of
KessRith masteryand declared a Naram Republic They considered a
nion with the New Roman Republic, but did not like the all or-nothing
mentality that Trajan fostered Whiletheirown political system split their
people into roughly the same classes,their suppression ofdissent was not
ncarly as brutal.Afraid they would incur Trujan 's wrath as had the
Commonwealth, Naram leaders dragged out ncgotiations for union until,
afier Trajan's death, the talks collapsed under.their own wcight.
Whereas Trajan might not have been the greatest architect of
political structure, he was a masterful warrior and general Time and time
again he outmancuvered KessRith and Ssora battleneets, On more than
one occasion he led both encmies to the same system, then vanished so
that their fleeis attacked each other, Having only jumped a shont distance
away,his fleet would retum and mop up the survivors from each fleet.
THEENDOFTRAIAN'SERA
The creation of the Naram Republic narrowed the KessRith front
with The New Roman Republic,which gave Trajan moretime toconsider
the political monster he had created Certain revisionist histonans have
sugeested that Trajan was pleased with what he saw, but a more realistic
reading of his personal diaries suggests this was not so, He had hoped.
through a camo and stick approach of citizcnship dnd slavery, thar he
could encouruge the slave and plebian classes to'stnive forimprovcmcnt.
He realized too late that the difficulty of bccoming a citizcnsonething
he hoped would make citizenship worthwhiledaunted and discounaged
loo many people: He had broken thcir spint.
In 6607 Trajan reporiedly began to draft documents thar, once
approved by the Senatc, would radically alter the shape of the govem-
mcnt.It has beea suggested that these rcfonmns would have resulted in a
bloody social revolution.butit is difficultto imagine Alexander Trajan's
The New Romnn Republic successfullyexploited Trajan's death by
lext terminal producing something so chaotic. lt is more likely that he
telling its citizens that KessRith agents had murdered him. This tale is
planned to fully scparate themilitary stnucture from the political and use
spread every so ofien to rckindle putriotic fervor forthe wars,The 677s
it as a watchdog over political excesses, As many of the Senatons had
desecration of Trajan's tomb,and the supposed theft of tissue samples.
personal armies at their beck and call, this was a refomn that many feared.
has been labelled a Commonwealth atiempt to destroy Trajan's body.
All histonians agree thut only somcone of Alexander Trajan's
Commonwealth agcnts have never denied being behind the altack.
strength could have pushcd these reforms through the Senute. It is not at
Underground sources report two differing conclusions from the analysis
all unusual that Trajan'sdcath in oos hns sornerimes been utuributed to
of thc tissuc simple (assuming they have oney: either Trajan was killed
assassination. While Trajan at 95, was an old man, he'd survived the
with a highhy sophisticated poison that siopped his hcart, or the DNA of
nigors of a warrior's lifefor over 70 of those years, Those who say he died
the individual billed as Trajan does not match known samples taken from
ofa broken heart may not have bcen wrone because his wite Sophia died
Trajan in his lifetime.
laie in 6607but more sinister causes have also been suggested more than
This second tale often spins into a corollarystory thar talks about the
cmperor'sHall of the Dead According to this story,vanolo Buntan
Trajan and his wife both were laid to resi in transparent caskets kept
exhumed the bodies of all leaders before himthose he could find of
on permanen display in Rome on Earth Thousands of pilgrims still flock
courseand displayed them in what can only be tcmed a surrealistic
to the site every day to gaze upon the long-dead body of the man who won
mausoleum of the mncabre. In theory, the bodies have been sealed in
their freedom from the Ssora and KessRith,Trajan's body has deterio-
polymers and mounted n the position Ivanolo felt appropriate for their
rated somewhat since 6775, and there are numors that pcople resembling
"crimesand failures."Inlvanolo's museum,Trajan was cnucified upside-
Trujan are occusionally killed and used to replace the body facing decay.
down and referred to as "the Beast"for his change of heart at the end of
his life

--- PAGE 138 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGG
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
TOG
sideofthe story.Novick.aformcrslave anda popular Populist leader,was
a good friend of First Consul Keruhaw.Oddly.even Buntani scened to
back his selection, noting he was a good and fair manthis despite the
WARLORDCONSTANTINAND RUNTARICAESAR
faci the Iwo were biuer nvals.
Whilethe New Ronan Republic maintained itsautocratic griponthe
Afier Novick lefi Earth. Buntari agilaled for more action and got
reigns of power.thepressure lightened somcwhatafter Trjan's deuth.li
Kershaw to agree to codvene the llldstrus Senate at New Romc. Built out
loosencd incrediblyafterAnhonyTrajinAlexander serandsonwas
over the Mediterarican Sea asa shining city ntsing above the waves,New
deposed for the murder of ten moderate senalons, His succcssor John
Rome servcd as thc capital for the New Roman Republic,The site of old
Kershawwas acclaimcd thefirst CacsarCatilehe declinediand his6669
Rome had been preserved as a privatc cstute for the First Consul,and was
Code Revisions all but abolished restrielions on the nse ofslaves-and
homc to the graves of all the Republic's leaders including Trajan,so
plebians to the vaunted heights ofcitizenship.As itcan well be imagincd,
kilometers from New Romc the First Consul's vila overlooked the
this broadening of power did not thnitl theelite,
cngincering masierpiece that formed the nerve center for a govemment
The decade and a half of Kershaw's reign was one of renewed
spanning 90 lightycars.
cultural flowering and an improvenent of relations with the Naram
When Kershaw called the Senate oorder.a S kiloton mucleardevice
Republic. The Commonwealth still rcmained suspicious of the Roman
exploded bencath the Capitol building.The Senate and sll who were in it
Republic and maintained its treaty with the KessRith, The Roman
dled immediately,The shockwave aused massive damage in the sur-
Legions, flouided with recruits from the lower classes,nedoubled their
rounding core of the city and over 2 million mcre individuaks died tis
efforts and continued haman expansion al thc.expcnsc of KessRith and
radiation and the resulting finestorm tavaged the city, Worse yet, thc
Ssora holdines.
explosion damaged the support structure holding thecity above the water.
While this militury success would prove important, ft also doomed
Slowly and inexorably bits ind pieces of the flaming city fell inio the
the New Ronan Republic,By 6679 Grand Gencral Douglas Constantin.
ocean, and within half an hour only boiling water and a steam plume
Warlord of the Republic, had made great headway in the KessRith
markcd therave of New Rome.:
Empire.However.oneofhisbettergeoeruls.TvanoloBuntan.wasalsothe
The time of succcssion elevaled he Wariord of the Republictothe
one whom he trustcd the least Buntani was given to braggadocio and
rank of First Coisul As Constantin prepared to retum to Earth to take
Nimboyantty self-serving ncws releases,Torwhich he had already been
control of the situation. Carlos Buntani accepted the appointment of
brokcn in nk Twice.Then he forcedthe sunrenderof 12S.oooKessRith
Special Investigator from thc scnators who had not beenableto attend that
Iroops on Durnella.
session of the Senate (Buniani's cronies figuring prominently among
Buntan lived up to Constanin's misirust After transporting the
them, His investigation quickly determined that Gregory Novick had
KessRith leaders to his agshipand providing them with a feast, lvanolo
been responsible forthe autack
opened the shields over the massive window in his chambers.Below.all
Novick wanted to return to clear his hamc butthe Constantins put
could see Dumella in all its striatcd blue.and white glory. tt was 
him on a ship for the Conmmonwealth,convinccd that was the only way
beautiful, lush worlda mngnificcnt prize in the Human-KessRith war.
to save his lite. Constantin reihalincd tom between returinine to Earth
Buntari ordered his fleet to bombard the pliriet, They hit it with
himnself or staving where he was He knew going alonc was sucide, and
everything they had, Billicnis of KessRith and enslaved humans died in
heknewreturningwithtroopswouldstartacivilwar.Notwanung locross
thefirst monents oftheassaal.Buntaricontinueditwell pastthetime any
this paricular Rubicon, he remnined oi the front with his loyal troops
livimg crealures could have survived. He continucd the assnuli untilall
Carios Buntar did nol remnin idleback can EarhIn an incidenrtha
water evaported,the atmosphere boiled off and the stenile cinders
hns taken on ncar-religious sienificance hc claimcd thespirit of Alexan-
glowed with the heatof repeated aitacks.
der Trajan ld him to a place where Trajan's memoirs had becn hidden in
On a whim, he had annihilated a world.
his:mausoleum, Buntani published bits and piecs of the memoirs-
Alamed, Constantin took his fleet, under the command of his sister
purporting to.outtine Trajan's vision of the Republie's Tuture. Instead of
Sefn,andtrapped Buntari.Heforecd theman toresign his commission
sanctioning Kershaw s casing of conirol,Tjan apparently wanted a
and would have summarily executed him if it weren't thal Buntan's
grealer tightening of the reignsof power.
faher, Cirlos. was a powerful retired llustus Senator back on Earth.
The Senalc. by now conposed solely of Carlostpolitical allies.
Wary of angering the Senale, Constantin scnt Ivanolo Buntan back to
decided to honor Alexandcr Trajan's'wishes and elecied Ivanolo Buntani
Earth foca count mantial.
Cacsar, As he accepted this great honor, Ivanolo sinnounced the creation
Garlos Buniant went o First Consul Kershaw and demanded his
ot a newlass of citizenthe OverlordHe said the Overlords would have
son s reinstatemnenl Kershaw refused thar reguest, but he relented and
the power of Caesar's name to nid the cmpire fno longer a republic) of
placed Ivanolo under house arrest at his family estates in Tyrolin.
trcasonous souls. He also tnnounced the empire's new oamc.The Terran
Kershaw also refused to court-murtial Consthntin,as earios demanded.
.Overlord GowemmentToGwasbom
Cardos and the First Consul panted company without seitling their differ
Civit strife immediately followed this declaration. lvanolo gave
ences, and Kershaw did not realize he d doomed himseif and the New
onders that any mititary unit that would not shootdown demonstrators
Roman Republic by his actions..
would ftself be declared disloral and destroyed One such unit,the 1x2nd
Carlos Buntnn mianagcd to get the Seriate to initiate an investigation
Heavy Cavalry, was wiped out to a man It had been communded by
of the whole incldent, The Senate s chiefinvestigalcr.mlustnus Senstor
Simon Constantin, Grand General Douglas Constantin's son. The
Gregcry Novick hended out from Eanth to the fleet to get Constanlin's
I82nd 's destnuction senta clear messagc lo Constantin

--- PAGE 139 [OCR] ---
GGGGG
AGGGG
RENEGADES
still did not know ifthey would bewelcomed by the Commotiwealth.Not
Douglas Constantin addressed his cntire cominmiand oh the KessRich
only was Costantin's taskforce thnee times the Commonwealth s total
front. In a long and at times incredibly eloqucnt specch,he unmasked the
Iroop strcngth, bu they'd been ripping their way through the
Buntaris and disowned them, He told his troops thut Senator Gregory
Commonwealih's allhies, the KessRith. And whenever theyhad time to
Novick was already at the Commonwealth capital ncgotinting a deal in
rest, T-doppler picked up sigris of Tokar's flcet, sending them scumying
which hiscornmiand could seek sanctuary withinthe Commonwealth.He
off again.
left it to every legionnaire to decide for himself whether to leave or stay.
Finally,eleven months to the day from their abnupt departune of the
but Constantin noted thiat anvonewholoved the old Republic could never
new Caesar's service, the tired Legion reached Frawtaw's Star. In this
behappy underan Overlord's heel.
small system between KessRith space and the Commonwealth they
On 15 September, 6681. over 300.000 Legions, 3.804 Battleship
hoped for a chance to regroup,before heading into the Commonwealth.
groups, and theirfamilies followed Constantin's flagship,the Righfeous
Unforiunately,  KessRith taskforce arrived, forcine Admiral Sefra
Fury, into T-Spice on the long journey across the KessRith Empire to the
Constantin to throw her ships once more into battle. Though her ships
Commonwealth.Legend has itthat the only ship left behind was the Dart
fought valiantly. she was sure the end was al hand until the KessRith
Destiny,Buntin's old agship.Often the story adds that it was decoraled
coinimanderbegan to wihdraw.
with the Rencgade ruffiti R, but that symbol was developed much laler
Sefra saw she'd gone from the frying pan into the fire.The KessRith
than the exodus, Ofmicial TOG records repot the ship as lost, lending
were pulling back becanse a TOG fleer hnd arrived and the KessRith
credence to the story that the ship had been booby-trapped and exploded
refused to be caught in'the middle, When the Tokar's flee fell on the
when hailed with a naval recognition code.
Renegades, however, the KessRith commander was convinced of the
Bunlar Caesar was not content to let these Renegades as he called
Renegada Legions'veracity.He brought his flect around and itslashed al
them.escape.Hesent Grand Admiral Tokarout witha huge fleettosmash
the TOG fleet Tokar found himselif outflanked and was forced to
them and bring back their broken bodies, Tokar pursued his duties with
withdraw.
a dogecd singlemindedness that some have suggested was because his
The KessRith quickly communicated with the Commonwealth,and
family were guestsofihe Caesarduring this long campaign.Whatever the
Comimonwealth Regent Debora Stevens sent greetings and messages of
reason,Tokir hounded theRenegades through the KessRith Empire,but
welcome to the Renegades, They were allowed to enter the Common-
never managed to catch up with thcm until they reached joumey's end.
wealth and maketheir homes there.Since thattine,the RenegadeLcgions
The Renegde Legions had not had a good time of it They faced
have fought viciously for the Commonwealth against TOG, with often
KessRih opposition throughout their flight.Tomakemllters worse,they
incredible results.
Commonwealth Grand Dukedoms
HndSain
New Phallpies
ToungSlin
Rothereh
Miershn
Marn
Gnenbern
TOGCoolrol
Medina

--- PAGE 140 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGOGGGOGGL
TOGSESTAHLISHED
the use of one preprogrammed sprayer truck), uncovers TOG agents
Bunitart used the defection of the Legions as proof of an alien
within the Naram Republic rins an "undereround railway for those
conspiracy to once again establish control over humunity.and his disin-
trying to flee TOG,and creates.other disturbances that undemine TOG's
efficiency, Of most recent note is the detcrmined canpaign of bombings
fomation nctwork spread countless nles.of lemor about the KessRith
thal has begun to destroy the TOG VLCA orbiting plntforims in the
domination of the Renegades. He increased the power of the Overlords
and guve their agents, the Lictor, almost unlimited powers and authority
systems aiong the Commonwealth border. Attheircurrentrate,in another
to seek out and destroy rebellion in nny form He also elevated the
ten yeurs TOG wil be deaf on that front.
Praclorian Guards from their ceremonial position to an elite corps that
answered to the Overlords, In addition,che current symbol of the Tean
CURRENT EVENTS
Overlord GovemmentEarth resting in a V,which stood for this fifth
The current Empenor, Nicholas Julianus Caesar, demanded that the
incamation of the Roman Empirebecame commion during this time.
Overlords and Lictoreliminite the Renegades, While they hive siepped
Dnunk with power. Buntani made one serious mistake.In 6691 he
uptheirefforts,and regularly erow about their successes,reprisal bonb-
issued the Patria Potestas, a bill that stripped ll nights from women and
ings and assassinations sugeest that thcy either have erossly overstated
gave them the status of chnttel. Women were still allowed in the anmed
their rate of success, or have woefully underestimnted their enemy.
forces, and whle restricted toa maximum rank of Centution Maximus.
Realists within dhe Senate believe both to be true
they comprised 2o% of the Pruetorian Guards.In fact,Buntan's personal
In order to make cenain this wild spree of Renegade responses does
bodyguard unit (the Ist Praetorian Gudrdy consisted almost cntirely of
not continue within the Orion and Mochov districis: the Caesar has
women,and the Caesar madehimself freetodally withanyofthem at will.
installed twomore Overlords, Overlord Kitich Dulor has been charged
Buntii setout on a joumcy to Epsilon Eridani in Novemberof6691.
with the specific duty of locating an enigmatic and wiley individual
On 7December,6691,a passing freighter pickeduphis frozenbody from
known asThe Fury He for shey leads the Rencgades and takes great
space, His ship,renaned the Venus Laeta, fled and joined the Renegade
delight in flaunting his ability to escape Imperial retribution. Reporiedly
Legions,Once thenews ofwhathadhappened reachTOG outposts, many
Dulorhasnanowed the listofcandidatesdowntoahandrulofindividuals.
other female lcgionnaires left TOG, foming the Athetia and Minerva
including llustnus Senntor Mikenus Koralis.
units within the Renegade Lcgions.Noone has forgotten why the womcn
In the Orion districi, whieh Tneludes the TOo holdines in Shan-
left TO,so baitles berween ToG units and femsle Renegade units are
nedam County, the Caesar saw fii to give power so Overlord Aldron
all the nastierand mone deadly
*Blood Mannius.His reputation for ruthless and quick reprisals earved
Thenextninety years saw liulechange in the direciionof TOG,TOG
him hisnicknameHeserved Julianus Caesarwell in the 72nd Practorian
began hostilities with the Commonwealth and successfully Infiltriled
Guard,when he ripped the Renegademovementapant inthe Ssoradistrict.
agents intotheNaram Republic.By6727.TOG hadexiended its influence
CThe Ssora copied the Renegade cell system, but becatise of their love of
so far tnto the Naram Republie thal what it did not annex outright it
organization, they Increascd inter-cell knowledgc.so they could effi-
converted into lintle more than a vassal state. This triggered a massive
cienily avoid recruiting individuats who had already bcen approached to
migraiion of Naram to the Commonwealth, though there are still loyal
join the undenground.y
Naram units widhin the Caesar's Legions They are used mostly to fighi
Amed with a veritable amy of Lictor,Overlord Mandius has even
the KessRith so they don't have contact with their Renegade brothers.
been granted supreme military commnnd in both the Orion and Mochov
This period also saw a tightening ofcensorship within TOG,and that
distncts (something that does not sit well with Overlord Dulor, among
awakened in many of the people adesire to read the works being ccnsored.
othersy.Authis point ih time,683o,his effortsare Tinle morethantentative
An underground movement arose to ensure freedom of expression.
moves, He seems to be feeling out the enemy before he strikes, Ohservers
Organized strictlyonacell sysiem,itproveddifficult fortheLictortoroot
figure that he ll either desiroy the Rencgades or be destroyed by them
out The underground started calling ftself the Renegades to fndicale
wiihin the next decade.
solidarity with thie Renegade Legions, and they created the red graffiti R
The cument Chesar. Nicholas Julianus, wns elevated to his present
that has come to symbolize the resistance to TOG.
position in 6792.n his previous post as Prefect of the 72nd Praetorian
The cell system of organization is old but still very effective. One
Guard, he obtained access to blackmail files on all the scnators,a move
individual recruits four or five others toform a cell. Each of these people
thal got him elecied Caesar and cne that has made the Senate very open
bcgins by knowing only the people in his celland often those identilies
to his suggestions. While militury priorities have shifted from the
are obscured through the simple use of hoods and codenames during
KessRith to the Commonwealth it is the ise of the Renegade under-
Imeetings.Eachcellmenber.in tum,organizeshisowncellof Renegades.
ground that gives Julianus the most unease, Julianus, an eminently
In this wayanyone memberoftheundergroundorganizationknows only
pragmatic man, knows his place in history will depend upon the Empire
the nane of the person who recruited him,the othiers in his cell and those
he leaves behind hin Tf he puits the rebellion down he will be a god. Tr he
in the cell he recnuited At the worst,one prisoner can reveal another lo
lenvesan Einpire riddled with thecancer of revolt.hewill be reviledard
agents.
dainned in the minds of men throughout the Terran' Overlord Govem-
For the Lictor,crushing arebellion structored into cells is asdifficult
as aiaking wine when you can only crush one erape at a timie. The
Fortunately for him,the Renegade problem is in tie hands of his best
Renegade underground creates forbidden works of art (the so-called
Overlords, They are ambitious men, perfecily suited to'counter the
"Banditmurils"thalcover the sides of whole blocks of buildinesthrough
unbitions of his Renegade foes

--- PAGE 141 [OCR] ---
OGOGGGGOGGOGGGGG
TOG
Omiciallythe structure of the Terran Overlond Govemment CToGy
SENATORS
mirrors thatof the ancient Roman Empire.In practice,however,the two
The Inperial Senafe is divided into three classes of Senators.
are guitedifferent.There aremamy rcasons forthis,but theforemost is the
Ivanolo Buntiri's Patrin Potestas his barred womcn from becoming
vastness of today's Empire. With quadrillions of people scatiened across
Senators. Aliens are allowed to bcome Senators, but their number urid
bllions of wcrlds, representative govemment does not work despite
power is well below their percentnge of thc population, Senators are
claims from idealists thal it might function given a chance. The TOG
ranked by thc scopc of theirelectorates by world by province (about 4o
sirucrure, then, is the most workable model for eficient govermment.
cr S0 worlds) or by prefechure (12 to 30 provinces). Prefectures are
divided into a total of seven destricrs empire-wide.
IMPERIALOFFICES
Clarissimi Senators represent one world and are elected by the
populnce. They altend the Provincial Senate conce very 4 years by VLCA.
The Caesar holds the highest office and one of absolute power.
While each planet does have a Governor, the Clarissimt Senalor of thal
Unlikethe old Ronan EmpireTOG's Cnesar is eleeted or confimed by
world may ovemule him To avoid problems with this sort of power
brokering,the Prefectof the local Legion often finds himself very much
thc Senate instend of inheritedby one bloodlincIn pmctical temns,the
choice of Caesar isofien decidedby political maneuvering.assassinalfon
in the Scnator'sfavorandcan ofien profitenormously by using his troops
bribery and extortion More than once the baitle has been won only after
to back one side or another in political skirmishes.
bloody clashes berween various Praetorian Guards.The Senate,practi-
One Spectabiles Senator is elected per province, he is the TOG ruler
cally minded as ever.sees.fit to confirm the winner in these struggles.
of that province The provinces themselves are gathered into prefectures
The Caesar rules without open questionhis word is law and the
and all Spectabiles Senators from within a prefecture mcet twice a vearto
Ovcriord camy out his laws. His persanal bodyuard consists of 20
pass laws and conduct hcarings The site of these meetings varies yearly
Praetonans and he Is the commander of all Praeloians.The Praetorians
fron province toprovince,with the usualcircuittakinganywherefrom 12
are notorious in their devotion tothe Caesar,but they have not becen above
to 30 ycars. At least twice yearly there is also a VLCA conference lo
discuss business and,on rare occasions, a major problem.will result in an
temoving an Empcror when they deem u best for the Empire itself
Clvanolo Buntan is ani exunuple of this concem for Empire before Em-
cmcrgency VLcA mceting being convened
One lllustr us Senaror is elected per prefecture by the Prefecture
While the Caesar never. faces public. opposition from others in
Sehate, but the Cuesur or llustrus Sennte may reject a candidate if they
find him wanting for any of  number of reasons. For all intents and
power,it is a foolish and soon dead Caesar who chooses to be ignorant of
the political games ployed withtn the Empire. Toward this end the
purposes the lustrus Senator is the ruler of his Prefecture and is often
Overlords and Lictor keep him fully appnscd of who is doing what lo
more fearcd than the Caesar, because he is much closer to the people thhn
whom.Various pcople refer to the Cacsar as "Argus, in an allusion to a
Is a single man on Terta Only an Overlord may ovemule the llustnus
never-sleeping mythological creature with a thousand eyes, and anyone
Scoalor nd thal nieht not occur without a fight.
who does not realiae that is a gross underestimalion will soon havc his
At least onccevery four years each llustrus Senator must physically
Scheming hcad handed to him on a plaiter.
atenda session on Te.Otherwise,Senators altendmeetings via VLCA,
The Iarperial Warlord,if one is appointed,is second ncominand to
but most.try to be present on Terra more often.The mapshowsthe vanous
the Chesar for military affairs. He answens only to the Caesar and.
districts.and dhenumberof Prefecturestandthus llustrus.Senators)from
technicallyisnext in line Tn cascthe CacsarTs unable-to fulfll his tem
eich.
of office, Practically speaking, being the head of all unmed forces and
CIVILSERVIGE
answerabie only lo thc Cuesur puts the Warlord in anrexcellent position
lo take power when the Cacsar is called away to the gods.
The ImperialCiviSerwice (lCS)is, as thejoke goes,neithercivil nor
The Imperial Consuls serve the Caesar as a Cabinet of sorts.There
a service. Ir is a massive bureaucracy that, for all practical purposes, has
are ten Impenal Consuls (morc or less), Seven (one for each district)
become a breeding ground for nepotism and a haven for incompeicnts.
advisethe Caesar on regionalmaiters,Threeother Consuls uisually handle
(Rumor has it that one Renegade infiltrator was unmasked because of his
iniemal extermal and eccnomic affairsbut theirdutiesvary. In thepust
efficiency.y The main concen of the Ics is to getmore time and money
the Consuls hiave been very powerful.butthcir powerhas waned recently
to fail doing what little they have been given to do,cln recognition of how
Now their role Is almost ceremonial becausethe Caesar has Invcsted so
much of a drain the ICS is on TOG,the Renegades have long considered
much power in his Overlords.Under Cacsar Julianus they une liule more
terrorist action against IcS offices and staff an act of treason uigainst the
than information sources and officials to preside ut minor public ceremo-
rebellion)
niesCThe tnuesisn oltheirweaknessisthateventhe Reneeades havenot
Each Planelary Governor is the Caesar's directly appointed repre-
considered them wonhy assassination targets.)
sentalive on a world.He controts the ICS worid-wide and is usunlly able.
against long cdds, to maintain it as a useful information scurce. In theory
a governor is the ultimate powcr on a world bui Clarissimi Senators have

--- PAGE 142 [OCR] ---
long disputed this theory.While the senators usually enlist the military as
thcir allies.governors ofien work with the Lictor tokeepthem in power.
Praetors are distrnict supervisors in charge of the different ICs
deparimerits.A Pmetor isonly as good as theIcS under him, so many of
the departmerits are run on a patronagc basis, Favors are rctumed by
favors. Successfully managing n distnct can gain a Pruetor enough
recognition to cither get him killed before he becomes a thieat to the
Govermor, or get hint appointed the next Govemor when the Govemor
gets himself elected a Clarissimi Senator (or when the Senalor kills the
Governor to remove a'thom from his side).
The Governor Praetor is the cxccption lo this ule about Praetors:
His puryiew is tax collection and nothing will stop him in his duties.
Nominally in charge of all of the IS within his distnct, he ofien has
access to interesting infonmation that can even bend an lllustnus Senator
to his will, This infommation can come from the district or,on speclal
occasions,has been known to flow upfrom a Governororan Overlordas
needed,As far as protocol is concemed,a Governor Practor is nothing lo
an lllustrus Senator, but in the real world a Govermor Praetor can bc a
nihimatc.cometrue.
SHADOWGOVERNMENT
Bureaucracies have one major difficulty: they chum so slowly that
nothing renlly gets done. lvanolo Buntari,and the Caesars who followed
him,recognized this flaw and have cxplolted it Geuing al a specific
citizen through theofficialchainofcommandis liketaking a localtrain
there re lots of stops and it takes a long time The following three
divisions of govemment fOverlords, Praclonans and Lictor) are the
express route forretibution and diseipline.
The Oieriard wcre creaed by Ivanolo Buntari to actasffixers.
Clicsar seesa problem and they fix it. Itdid nol malter if the solution were
an assussinationora simple word in the ear of the troublemaker. As long
as an Overlord does not hideously ovemeact and run amok-and he is
given plenty of tatitude with the definition of amokhe acts with the
the72nd serving as Julianus privale guard, their membership is drawn
power of the Cacsar. Defying one is not considered an act of monl
fromthebestofthewholeemplreNotonlyarethcy given specialtraining
courage,it is considered insnity or suicide.
butthey are subjected to iniensive indoctrination that makes their loyalty
Because Overlords are so powerful,the first actof any Caesaris.to
lo the Caesar unquestioned.
sweep his predecessor s Overlords oul.A few of them may already be
One unii is assignedto each Overlord as hisown personal troop.and
hors de conbat becausc of the strugele forthe throne, but the rest are a
a couple of llustnus Senators have been given Guard units as a sign of
threai just waiting to cnupt. In the past there have been anywhere from 31
favor from the Caesur tor to keep n cye on them). The Slst, 65th and
to S9.Overlords:thepresent count is 49.
logth units defected to the Renegade Legions-the laiter being the unit
The most powerful Ovcrlord is the one who heads the Liciarand he
tha spaced Buntanso thcir numbers have been banned fron thc listol
is responsible for all espionae, counter espionage assassination and
Practorian Guunds.
blackmail within TOG.The other Ovcrlords are acoorded stalus within
The Licfor is the vilestientacle in the Terran Overlord Govemment.
the Lictor and ofien make use of Lictor agents and resources in the course
They havetaken as their symbol the Fascioan axe bound withinabundle
of their duties, They are also able to wield powerwithin the normal
of sticks to signify that they strengthen the nation by kceping everyone
military struclureabove and beyond commanding their Praetorian
together. This is somewhat inuppropriate as the rampant paranoia they
Guard units-but that sort ofappointment comes only afteradirect order
Cause has served to drive a number of people inlo the ranks of the
Rencgade Underground The Lictor have infiltraled every strata of the
Tromthe.Caesar or Senaltc.
Overlords have been llkened to pitbulls,in thal oncethey havebeen
culutc, so one can nevcr be'cerlin thal a Liclor is not within carshot.
assigned a task theydoanything and everything theyneed to successfulh
The Lictor has two divtsions. The /mternal Securirv Dnzsion (iS)
conplete it. For most of them, Overlord is the highest post they will ever
handles all counter-esptonage and anti-Renegade Underground activi-
achieve They realiae their power and fate are dircctly tied to the rule ot
tles The Ecrernal Afabrs Dimision (EA) deals with foreign rcalms.lts.
the Caesar who so favored then, so they do what they must to insure his
notable success has been the Seductionof the Naram The ivalry
continued survival
bctween thesciwo facels ofthe Lictor is legendaryin its intensityand.n
The Praeiorfan Guandsare2S6 ofthcmosteliteTOGumitsinexis-
pursuit of Renegades operating in the anncxed pan of the Naram Repub-
tence.Numbering from the Istthrough the 2s9th Praetonian Guirds,with
lic.has lead to much duplication oteftort.

--- PAGE 143 [OCR] ---
AGGGI
NGGG
IGGGGG
THEPOPULACE
PLEBIANS
Plebians, at 45ge of the whole,are the lurgest population block in thc
The people of TO ire divided Into thiree sharply defined clusses.
Empire, While they started out as 'class to contain the apatheic and
Passaee bick nnd forh belween the lowertwo levelsis possibleusunlly
weak-willed who wanted nothing to do with the warfor man's Tiberation.
the Plebiain chass has grown to contnin many artisans and semi powerful
at the whim of the government or a memberof the uppcrcliss Passage
from the lower classes to Citizenship is in theory. possible. Yet more
corporate oihicers, The fus eeurtam the body of laws the eovems the
Plebians.provides for their physical safety and even prolects some of
possible is n fGll from favor.(and citizenship)again at the whim of the
goverument for offenses real, imagined or manufactured
their possessions from seizure, Plebians cannot participate in defense
The three chasses are Citicenus, Plehians and SlavesThese three
related employment save the military,tnless they have clearance from
the Liclor.Within the military.a Plebian can even win Citizenship if he
strata are found throughoutTOoand represent the social levels possible
on all Worlds.regurdless of race.Thus a KessRith bom as a Pleblan will
distinguishes himself with an act of herolsm.
Plebians have gained somne distinction and power as moneylenders.
be a Plebian on any world to which he travels
Plebians can improve their lot in life through mamying up,butchildren
of half-Plebian descent may tater be repudiated by their noble father and
CITIZENS
retumed to the class from which they.were bom. Slayes can be elevated
The Cuizens of the Empire are the privileged class. Citizenship is
into the Plcbian caste as can aliensfrom a race that bas proved"itself to
hereditary and Citizcns comprise approximately one third of the popula-
TOG.but lifeis noteasy for these newlyfreed individunls.CPlebians have
tion an nmazingly lorgc part of the population when you recall that the
a dislike for those who were once thcir infenors, an aititude rcflected
Patria Potestas stripped citizenship from all women. It is possible for
withn theCitizen class as well
liens to nise to Citizenship, but in the xenophobic atmosphere of TOG
their grasp on it is tenuous at best.
SLAVES
A Citizendoes haveduties tothestare,the primiarytwoof whicharc.
Slavesrcpresent the lowestof the social sirata in the Terran Overlord
Hy3 years ofcompulsory military/public service (the lattercategory
Govermmcnt. Slaves have their own set of laws to provide then somne
was added afier Alexander Trujan sdeath forthose withinfimmities"that
degree of protection,though this protection is draimatically less than that
prevented them from putting their Patrician sensitivities cn the Kess Rith
cnjoyed by Plebians and Citizens.
linaand
Slaves can be pressed into labor in any instance where such lalor ts
21 voting for Sentors.
for the eood of the empire Such labor is usually arduous, such as
Satirists hnve noted tha a 3rd dudy is to.occasionnlly visit mercy upon
mining for Gennium-Arsenic ore Lighter duties might include street
thcir slaves and freeman employees, and the Renegades have suegested
cleaning for the local ISC department of public works, Despite the fact
thattenaining deaf,dumband blind about TOOcxccsses isvel thefourh
that Slaves operale under very liniting laws and have much less personal
duty ofa good citizen
frcedom, they are generally protected fron "abuse"however in many
cases TOG looks the cother way, ignoring any possible problems.
Privale ownership of Slaves is legal,but only by Citizens Usually
such slaves indenfure thcmselves for maney or services, selling them-
selves and even their Tamilies Pensonal slaves are not common, but
usually fill such roles as personal drivers or housckeeping staff.

--- PAGE 144 [OCR] ---
GGGGGOOGGGGGGGGI
AGGGGGGGG
ALIENS
alike, TOG would love to get their hands on more Menelvagoreans, and
Alien species fall into two different categories within TOG.Lesser
the Commonwealth would similarly love for more Menelvagoreins to
Allens are non-HumarvNaram creatures thar have reachcd a certain level
enlist with tie Renegade Underground
of independent thought. As man expnnded through the niverse, sen-
The bottom linefor aliens in TOGisthis,if you can pass for Human.
ticnce became closely linked with T-Space drive lechnology: if a race
do so, If you are not Ssoran or Vauvusar,expectto be treated like a Slave.
could not travel the stars they were inferior, Various races like the
If you are Ssoran or Vauvusur, don't expeci anything belter than the
Huldice, Lungdo and the Hivers have been integrated and inculrurated
trcatment you'd expoctof Slaves..
into the TOG populace, In practice this means they were dispersed among
the humnan worids and have, for all intents and purposes, died out within
THE MILITARY
sterile settlements [Editor 's note: The apparent excepticn to this rule arc
the Hivers. They were discovered in a densely packed cluster near the
The military contains the grcatest collection of warriors and weap
center of thc galaxy, While ToG hns long proclaimed ownership of the
ons ever secn in the galaxy. Between the wo branches, the Imperial
entire area, the efficacy of the Hiver Diaspora has been called intodoubt.
Legions and the Imperial Navy.there are over s,ooo,ooo Legions boast-
It has been sugeested thar Hivers managed to steal a starship and have
ing 50,o00 men each, and over 100o00 Battleship Groups with all their
withdrawn to create theirown fleer so they may battle TOG,The veracity
altendant escort, troop transport and supply ships. Even scaltered
of this theocy'nwaits confimmation,Until that tine,the Hivers have been
throughour the galaxy,that concentration of power is staggering Thatthe
consigned tothe same scrapheapofextinction that claims the Dodo bird.
Commionwcalth even continues to exist is a testamunt to the will of men
the Thylacine and tho Huldice
to be frce.
Some lesser races have proved educable and cager to join TOG,The
Each male citizen, upon his IGth birthday.is conscripted for a term
Zog raceis just sucha species.These aliens are"administered"by an ICS
of service not less than 3 years Most individuals take advantage of the
bureau,andanyindividualswhotestoutas competcntwith lechnological
cdocational bicnefits Jind agrce to a longer term of service. 20 years in
devices are admiuted to the military.In effect they are treated as semi-
brings a 25go pension (25%e of pay at their last grade/ranky and 30 years
Plebians, which meains they can comitmiand Slaves so long as no one
in service brings a 66se pension. Plebians may enlist at will, though it is
notices or takes offensc.
only an exceptional Plebian who will rise imto the officer corps. Slaves
The Greater Aliens are those races who discovered space trivel on
tmay only scrve within the military if they are thc pcrsonal servant ofan
their own and managed lo expind throughout the stars to mcct man on a:
officer,and thcir upkeep is deducted from his.wages, Human women
(somewhat) cqual footing- The Naram, KessRith, Baufrin, Ssora,
make up 20% of the military,and various aliens accoumt for 30% ofthe
Vauvusar and, by extension, the Menclvagoreans occupy this class of
tbtal number oftroops.
alien. Ninms are almost openly accepied as human and can easily pass
as such, KessRith and Baufrin,being easily identifiable as both alien and
LEGIONS
hostile,are relegated to tha Slave class.The Sson who admire TOG for
The Impertal Legions are the shock and garrison troops for the
its organization, are an alien nice thal has"'proven" itself to ToG by
Empire. lt istheir job to takeand hold hostile worids,They suffer the most
continuing to fight the KessRith.Ssora can becomne Citizens and a Ssoran
casunltics and are not otten poriraved as glamorous by the media, though
has even beeni elecied a Clanssimi Scnator In the Sscra district
their tank batiles hold greut interest for the vast population ofex-tankers
The Vauvusar nd Menelvagoreans form special cases. The
(which can be found almost anywhere), Aliens are well represented
Vauvusar, becanse of their help to Alexander Trajan, are often accorded
among the Legions TOG is careful not to use allen troops against their
very high status within both TOG and the Commonwealth. Becuuse there
own species except in infiluration and espioage campaigns.
arereallysofewofthem (bycompanison),this statusis acceptablewithin
the.xenophobic philosophy of the TOG.They are considered a"catalyst"
NAVY
who merely sped up what would have occurred nuturally anyway. When
The Imperial Navy has over 4 billion ships in its registry, a quarier
a Vauvusar begins to scek too lofty a position, the numors about the
of those being warships and the rest being iroop transponts or supply/
Vauvusar and the Snow Plague showing upat the same tine arc circulated
tender craft, The Navy transports the Lcgions between stars, protects
once more
them from hostile ships and occasionally lends a hand with a planetary
The Menelvagoreans are likewise a special case because they have
bnnrage, The power of the Navy cannot be underestimated, as the
only recently been discovered, Their homeworid exists deep within
occasional total devastation of a planet by naval assault points out, No
Commonwcalh territory. Their planel, which exists in a triple star
other military force within the Galaxy can even begin to match the
system,wus judged ioo unstable and unlikely to producenmuch Gennium-
Imperial Navy forsizeor firepower.
Arsenic ore for crystal production. Until the loss of other crystal-
Ships range from Baideships and Cruisers down through Frigates
producing worlds, Menelvagor was deemed an uneconomical place to
Destroyrs,Escorts,Corvlts,Gunboats,TransportsSuppyTndrs
mine for ore, In sending out its own survey parties, however, the
Fighicrs. Ships in the Corvette class and largcr generally curry fighters.
Commonwealth discovered dis bellicosc race and consider ita bonanza
and "carier' ships are placed within the class appropriale'for thcir stze
ofG-Acrystals.
even though their fircpower is determined by the fighters they camy.
Because the Menelvagoreans live for war, they don'l much care
While colossal space banles hold great allure for the vast TOG public.
when or where they fight The few chat have been captured by TOG have
their real fascination seems to be with individual fighter squadrons like
been tumed into gladintors and havedelighted crowds with their prowess.
the vaunted Death Express and the Blood Eagles, whose exploits the
On the front, working with the Commonwealth and the Renegade Le-
mcdia are cuick to publiciz.
gions,they have proved deadlyand are viewed with awebyfriend and foe

--- PAGE 145 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGI
GGGOG
THE COMMONWEALTH
The Conmonwealth is conorised of someo.ooo inhabited stars at
THE POPULACE
the Far cnd of.the Onion'arm of thetalaxy.From cnd toend, itstretches
approximately 4S.000 lightyears and isdivided into21GrandDukedams.
The people of the Commonwealih are both too ordinary to spend
Each Grand Dukedom has about So Couries,and each County his do to
much time discussing and too diverse to be descnibed in under 1oo pages.
S0 inhabited planets With (on veruge) 1.3 habitable planets per star
As mentioned above.they are anegalitarian soclety.with litleevidence
system, the Commonwealth is densely populted with humans and
ofracialor sexual prejudice. Many fleeing refugces scc in them a perfect
Baufrin, along with refugcc Narin, KessRith and Ssona contingenis.
society.However.this perceptin is twice-colored by TOG.First,they re
Nativealien species.principally theMenelvagoreans,make up 10%of the
comparing the Conmonwealith to TOcand sincethey rediscontent with
totalpopulalion.
TOG,theynaturally find the Commonwealth preferable.And sccond,the
Commonwealth ts on a war footing Tts energies are directed against a
THE GOVERNMENT
common foe, unifying it and leaving it littde time for fnction from within.
if the Commonwealith weren T concentrating.so completely on survival
The political organization of the Commonwealth is based on the
against an exterior threat it might find more to fight about anong its
parlamentary systems cominon to Earth and other humen worlds before
individual societies,races ard worlds,
the Snow Plague and subsequcnt slavcry, Each world has a Hoirse of
Canmoas and House ocLords with a Pnie Miister chosen from the
THEMILITARY
House of Commons to head the govermmen A Baron, appoinied by the
CountorDuke ofthearea oversces the Prime Ministerand insuresa lack
TheComimonwealth is inthe curious position of having twomilitary
of despotic rule.
organizationis within its borders,butexcrcisingonlynominalcontrolovr
Couar administer the Commonwealth on the County level and
one of them There are 3oo.oo Renegade Legions stationed in Common-
Duaes hundle business on the Dukedomn level OnNew Britinniahe
wealth.temitory.each organized under the TOG model that places 5o.o0
capital of the Commonwealth, the "first citizen" is titled the Reeent and
troops in a legion, By comparison, the 2ooooo lcgions within the
administers thccntiregovermment.Withcach of theseupper levels ofihc
Cormmonwealth Anned Forcesis notexactly overwhelming Granted the
govermment. the nobies meet in a House of Lords and elect theirrepresen
Commonwealth provides Bo% of the Renegade Legion's operuting
tatives to the nex level, culminaling with the Grand Dukes electing the
budget, but more than one Regent has lost sleep wondering what would
Regent
happen if the Renegades decided to make the Commonwealth their own.
The Commonwcalth is unique in that it treats all species ln an
Fortunatelv.the Reneeades are singlehinded in thcir desire to
egaliturian manner.KessRith,Baufrin and Humans have all served as the
destroy TOG.They actively recruit from Commonwealth worids, ind
Reeent By far, the Baufrin Regenis have been the most controversial.
dcocpt traincd militiry refugees from TO space Refueee recnuits are
Suphri Decla signed the peace with the KessRith, angering Alexander
thorooghly checked out by agents still within TOG, and Lictor spies are
Trajan, To Siptos, successor to Debora Stevens and thus the Regcnt
dealt with ruihlessly when uncovered The Renegades mainlain theirown
during Ivanolo's uisurpation of power,embroiled the Comnogwealth in
academies for training recruits, many of whom come from.the growing
War with.ihe Teman Overlord Goveminent by.nelusing to retum the
number of Renegade homeworlds in the Commonwealth.
Renegade Lcgions o TOG justice.
Cross-training and cross-service of officers between the Renegade
The present Regent is a human mamed Stephen Lukanther. The
Legions and the CAF has lessened much of the tension between thetwo
youngest Regent to daic, at 48 yearsold, hc wasraised by KessRith on the
scrvices, The Rencgade Legions are seen by almost everyone in the
planet of Gaul.Hedistinguished himself as an arnor comunmander with.the
Commonwealth as the supenor fighting force, and not just because of
Commonwealth, and after helping defeal a corrupt KessRith regime on
superior numbers, yel they accept CAF leadenship whenever necessary.
his homeworld, worked his way up to become the Grand Duke of the
CMore ihan one healcd discussion has been had overthe Renegade and
Gaulish Dukedcm.Frm therehewas elected Regent despiterumors thot
Commonwealth definitions of thc word nccessary. Commonwealth
he is prejudiccd against the KessRith, In response to such numors,he
cthizens recruited as legionnaires consider the recruitment an honor, and
points out thatall of the friends of his youth are KessRith.
mostreadlyaccept
Unforunately for him, TOG agents managed to abduct his wife in
The Renegade Legions are organized along thc lines of thc TOG
6829 to serve as bait for a trapplanding to gei both him and any
military forccs.RL unifoms combine bits and pieces of Commonwealth
Renegade Legions who migh try to rescue her. Lukanther's rescue
styles with matennl that dates back to the New Roman Republic ammed
attempt succeeded,but some advisors believe TOG did not put up a neal
forces. Prominent now is the graffiti R that marks both unifomms and ships
defense against Elizabeth Lukanther 's retum It has been suggested she
in the Renegade Legions It has been adopted by the expatriots as an
may have been turned by TOo and the Lictor, so Stephen has been
emblem of solidnrity with the Renegade underground,which many of
sonewhatdistant tohis wifesince herreturm.Tt is elenr thut this separhtion
them have pensonal reason to thank.
isteanngatbothorihcm

--- PAGE 146 [OCR] ---
The Commonwealth Ammed Forces are divided into quite a few
CAFSERVICEBRANCHES
organizations and branches-enough,in fact,tomakethe average Ssora
The Service Bmnchcs oftheCAFare each dislinct and scpurite.and
weep.Hnlf of the 2o0.oOo Commonwealh Leglons follow the TOG/RL
there is an obvious rivalry among them Whilethis mieht seem bad on the
tableoforeanization,thouehthey retaln theirown tank insignia and titles
surfacc.this unity of one branch against another helps to bleed off what
Thc other Ioo,oO Lceions are stnuctured into units favored by one or
might otherwise anise as rucial tension among the different spccies.
nother of the different species in the Commonweulth alliance, A list of
-The Royal Amy handles planetary assaults and gamison duty.
titlesanddescriplions includes:
The Royal Navy deals with space batties, transpor and support of
ground troops
B'EKKALINARAM
-The Roval Marines.a small.elite force specializes in ship-to-ship
B'ekkal units are those paitemcd on the Naram style of combal Past
boarding actions and quick assaults of ground targts like a spaceport or
but lightly'armored,they rival Legions insizeand are peopled by Naram
industnal complex.tArmy troopers note thatif you can t walk andchew
ind Hunians forahc most parl.
gum at thie sametimc,you end up in.the Marines becausethere you don't
havetowalk)
KESSRITH
-The Royal Aerospace Force handles fighters in ground acrions or
KessRith legions lend to be smaller than Renegade legions. They
garrison duty, fighters camied on Navy vesscls have their chnin of
pack lots of power, but lack the ease of mobility seen in B'ekkal units.
commanid hooked into that ofthe Navy.
Still, they can take lots of pcunding and still be around to fight so
- The Special Porces units of the CAF handle all anti-temorist
discounting them would be a mistkeespecially when they hold an
activities in the Commonweulth and fosler temonst activiues in TOG
entrenched position, Menelvagoreans like service in these units.
space.Theirefficacyat geting suppliestothe Renegide Undergroundhas
been hailed as one of the greatest reasons forthe Undereround's success.
BAUFRIN
-Each Planetary Militia is composedofnntives tothat worldand are
Baufrin units splir the difference between the previous two,They
Tesponsible for its defense Theyalso help outduring emergcncies.vast
floods, life-threatening storns and the like.often a militia s officercorps
have fair mobilitybutcan tweather an assault llkea KessRith unitcan.
They are valued for their ability to follow up and reinforce equally
is.torally filled with retired.CAF officers.Militia troops are alsotrained
tobecomeguerrillas iftheir world is overmun,andserve asspecinladvisors
compelent when exploiting opportunitics crcated by B'ekkal units or.
lo Marineand Army units activeon their world.
succoning a besieged KessRith unit.
Sky Murshals aresciccied from among thc leadershipol the CAFto
administer vast fronts in the baitle with ToG, This is more than a
VAUVUSAR
ceremonial pcsition,and its responsibilities have broken more than one
Vadvusar units thefewthal exist,hit hardanduse thcir mobility to
commander, While they have been likened to Overlords, this analogy is
compensateforthciralmosttotal lackofamor.They join inbantlesalimost
not accurate, Perhaps better would be a compurison to sn Imperial
atawhim andonlytheirguick-stnkecavalcymakcsthemtoleradcdon the
Warlord appoinled for duty in a specifie County or Dukedon.
Gield or banle by thcir allics.

--- PAGE 147 [OCR] ---
GOGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
GGGGGG
FREETRADERS
The Free Traders,who.at various timas call themsalves Thc Mer-
The head of the Hloly Cartels ts the Chairmian of the Board
chant Races ora relipious organization scrvethe galaxyin the samc way
curently Azurikal, the first Ssora to hold that office. Below him is an
hemoglobin serves the human body, The trade in infornation and
Associarion o COs.They administerthe individual Free Traderworlds
malerial, thal flows through their worlds keeps the galactic cconomy
and work lo help miximize delivery of products to the vanious markets.
healhy on both sidcs of the war, In many.wuys they are the ultimale
Wodds thcmselves ure divided not into geographical disiricrs per se, but
mercenaries-ifit has a price they'll undercut it to buy and triple it to sell.
into Marter Seemlenis, such-as Precious Metals, Contraband, Militiry
Theirclnimtothe labelof"Merchant Racesstenms from thefactthat
Contraband,Intangibles and so on, Each of these Market Segments is
the Free Tradcrs include anyone and everyone who sees safety in
oversecn by an Arbiter.He controls a staff of Arbitrugeurs who anange
mobility. Many of the races thnt TOG hit with a Diaspora, like the
most of the deals.
Huldiec Lunedo and Ritha have their last survivine mermbers in this
Procurators are the next siep down and are elected by the individual
looseconglomeration of huckstcrs The FreeTraders have bcendescribed
merchantsina local.geographical marketscgmenttoreprescntthem with
as the"Gypsies of Space."a comparison that is marred only by the fact
the upper echelons, Individual merchants are generally just called mer-
that the Frce Tradcrsdo claim somie worlds for their very own.
chants, but their official name within the Holy Cartels is Profieers, lt is
Earlyon,TOGdecided that taking theseworlds would piimp adinect
through this botom level thut all product moves, so the Profiteers are
infusion of weilth inioits cconomlcbloodstream,Protit Margin wusthe
highly regarded by their superiors.
firstFree Truderwordd TOG struck The Frec Tniders pulupnoresistance
A deal mighe be set up like this the local CEO is asked by another
and nbandoned their trading center there. TOG insented its own garnison
CEO to help eliminate a glut of gold on his world before it can depress
and burcaucracy lo keep the lines of tnde flowing, The Free Tniders
prices, Word goes to the Precious Metals Arbiter of he world who sends
gathered their people md headed out for the nexl closest Free Trader
his Arbitrageurs out to coordinate transactions, The Arbitragcurs might
worid,but before.they endered T-Space, they senta P-Comm signal that
arrangc to off-load most of the gold within the jewelry industy.but only
detonated a Soo kilolon nuclear device planted bcncaih the trade center,
if the merchants who buy it will agree to a 14-day billing cycle with only
ullerty destroying it, the gaisoning personnel and a great deal of
a SS discount for prepayment.The Procurators poll their constitucnts and
sunounding landscape
decide if this dcal is acceprable, while the Arbitrageurs continue to look
The other Free Trader worids inimediately began to undersell TOG
for other gold outlets When the Arbitrageurs have more than one deal
traders when TOG was sellmg,and charge astronomically high prices
cooking for the same merchandise,they playbothends against themiddlc.
when TOG decided to buy This definitely crealed ripples oftrouble
and try to get even a beller deal than the selling Procurators report their
throughout TOG,so the Emperor repudiated thc actions of the Overlord
people want The Arbiter picks the best deal(s) and the materinls are
Who had akan and died on Profit Mangin ind offered reparutions, Since
shipped to the purchasing merchants, with any margin betwccn one
that time.the Frce Troder worlds have been relatively Invtolate
world'sselling priceand theotherwordld'sbuying price going straight into
The staie af affairs on Free Trader worlds is best described s
Cartelcoffers,The Curtels also getabout halfof the oe tithe chnrgedon
seething neutralityThe Free Traders cloak themselves in the religious
all deils, so it double dips on the best deals.
tnppings of an order thut Morships the Money GodsCThey make a great
Many people have charged that the Holy Cartels are not a religion.
deal oul of the misquote, Render unto Cacsar that which belongs to
but the Cartels. point to the fact that at each level the frunsactions are
Cacsar. and unto the Gods that which belongs to them.y Their wordds
conducted through ritual and cerernony honoring the Moncy Gods,The
fairy throb with the flow of money passing through them, Licior and
Holy Cardelsclaim the revelation of the Money Gods goes back to a zoth-
Renegade agcnis abound  Troops are allowed on-planct for Rest and
ceniury Tenn merchandiser named James Francis, He realized that
Recreation,but theTraderssegregaleeneiny troops intodifferentquarters
people closcly cquated value with the amount they paid for items, but
of their cities
rated that valuehigherjfthrybelicvedchey gora grear hargain,even ifthe
item aciually was of inferior quality.He began to spread a gospel that
RELIGION
stressedaconspiratonial sellinstendofa hard sclf focusingontheinstant
givn access. Regardless ofthe pice paid, dhe buyer decided be d gotten
The Free Traders claim to be oreanized by the Holy Canels of the
a ereat deal and went away happy.
Merchint RacesTheHoly Cartelstan umbrellaoteantaatlo lunctios
Franciswho once said, Sympathy and a firm handshake moves
moreiktatradeassoclation thanitdoesa tnle religonandcriticshave
more than coupons, found himseif at the head of a tnde organization,
charged that it is simply an excusetoallow tradersto parneran exira los
s atithe tor he Cartels Tt clainns two major brunches, those being
Chonismatic, he hit on the reliejon angle to garmer tax exempt stnlus for
the profits he reapedConsumerswho havealways been eullible began
White and Black.for leeitimale and illepal mnrkeis t professesthat
to correlate good bargains wih merchants who displayed the sacred
govermmentaid programs (itcallsthem giveaways)are a violation ofthcir
snake squashed on a rilroad urack" (Sy sign in theirwindows The rest.
practice of religion, Communists and soctalists arne considered infidels.
the Holy Cantcls would have you believe, is history.
causing thedath of one has been successfullyclaimed,in a court of law
lo have beenself-defense.

--- PAGE 148 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGOGGOGL
AGGGGGOGGGGGGGGOGG
MARKETSEGMENTS
BECAUSETOGNEEDSTHEM
The second sort of answer totheguesiion of whythe Frce Trodersare
allowod toexist is farmorc sinister.Most pcopledon'trcalizethetruc size
Merchants will buy and sell anything. Prices ury with what dhe
merchant paid for the lem and how willing and able to pay the buyer
of the TOG military machine. lt boasts 8,ooo,ooo Legions, while the
Commonwealth and Renegade Legions togcther lotal Soo,Ooo Legions.
appears lo bc. In fact, much of the religious cducation Merchant childnen
That gives TOG a 16 to 1 advantage in ground troops Best estimates put
undergo is in haggling and listening to the gods as they tell you whethor
Renegade and Commonwealth Batileship groups at 1o.ooo,compared to
TOG's loo.oOo.That gives thein a belter baitleshipratio with TOG.but
Intangibles is onc of the largest Market Seemcnts for the Cartels.
still puts them bchind lo to I in naval streneth.
This Segment deals with infonmation, The nice thing about information
In short, TOG should crush thelr opposition like a steamroller
is that it reguines very linle stonage,can often be purchased chcaply,and
flaltening grupes, Why thcy have notdone so is not much discussedjust
can be resold many times over, While news tends to be a bit time-
quoring the above figures is enough to depress any of TOG's foes. Many
dependent, a good fact file on anyone or anything wil eventually tum a
profit. Also some bits of inforination just create themselves (requiring
people suggest that the Renegade Underground successfully hampers
Too's efforis lo organiae the mnssive offensive that could cnush the
Commonwealth, They also point out that people who hate TOG would
members buying ballistic pobymer blocks in gross lots?The answer is
likcly to be more valuable than the question, but the local Lictor are likely
make taking each world difficult raisingthe stakes tothe pointthar Too
is reluctant to makc a wholesale aitempt.
to pay for the question itself.
This, mind you, is said of a govemiment founded by a man who
Ii's a pood idea to tuke cane around a Frcc Trader.Pcople who have
heard stories ofa Free Trodor selling out.a fnicnd havc asked,"Do thesc
destroyed a planet on a whim.
What most scares.the highest circles of anti-TOG leadership is the
people hold nothing sacred? The answer to that question is easy:"Yes.
possibiliry that TOG has not won because TOG does nef wdrut to win/ In
Moneylr While loyalry is not an unknown quantity among the Frcc
fac, as sorhe critics within the Commonwealih point out, TOG has
Traders, it too can be sold then sold again to a higher bidder. TOG has
established the war as a unifying elenent within the Empire If not for the
enough money to make it worth the while of many Free Trnders to tum
war, people wouldn't have anything to unify then, Thcy would stat to
poople into commoditics.
protest taxes and other sacrifices they tolerate in the nanme of the war. In
WHYDOTHEYSTILLEXIST?
the worst light, the fight against TOG is sustaining TOC.
Thc very idea puts the Copumonwcalih in a cunous and uncomfort-
able position, if TOG has no desire to end the hosilities, then the
This guestion is one that has plagued many analysts who look
Commonwealth is faced with an inierminable war,cerainly not the ype
beyond the cconornic benefits ofihe Free Trader worlds, Even given thc
of thing they'd want to pass on to their children Then the only way they
Free Traders' willingness to commit suicide by destroying their cities.
can be left alone is to bloody TOG badly enough that TOG loses its insle
TOGfcouldmnkeaneffonttoneutralizesuch devices tin the future.While
for war. Still that may nor be possible. What would TOG sce as
ftis true thar the FreeTtaders efforts lo punish TOG did hunToG bhas
unacceptable louses whenthey outnumbertheenemy 16to17Areduction
the personnel and resources to fully blockadeeach and every Free Trader
to 5 to l? And ifthalobjective werelobe reached,what would have been
world until their lack of trade starves them inlo submission.
he costto the Comnmonwealih?
For the Reoegade Legions the question is a bit easier to define, if no
BECAUSETOGDOESNTNEED THEM GONE
easier to resolve.The Rencgades suffer froin the clissic refugee problern:
The answcrs tothisquestionrin in wodifferentdirections. The first
the grass is always grcener in the lands that grandfather left bechind. They
and the one most commonly believed is tha TOo doesn t tnke them
believe thcir best chiance at living anornal life is tooverthrow the Empire.
because they don't nced to take them. The Free Truder worlds rose up in
A noble goalto be certain,but is itonethnt can be realired? Given thatthe
rebellion against the KessRith and Ssora cmpires ar the same time that
trip from the front to Earth wouldtake a yearanda half at maximum speed,
Trajan led his uprisingThey.fought the sane batilcs, both with and
TOG could summon a taskforce three times the size of any Renegade
wihout humanaidand in some cascs thcyaidcd thc humin revolution
strikeforce they dctecled without noticeable.disruption of norinal busi-
aries.They won their independence at the same time as TG and the
ness, While stout heart andistrong back might account for much in
Commonwenlth, but uniike the latter group, they never repudiated TOG
warfare, 30.o00 batileship groups would chop 10.o00 battleship groups
or allied with their forner masters Clt is tnue.however,that they do trade
imtochaff.
freely with the KessRith and Ssora and they number more than a few
And,of course,the Free Traders haveeven less strength with which
KessRithand Ssora in theirassemblies)
toopposeToG.
TOG sees the Frec Traders as armed neutrals, unwilline to take on
Whatever the reason, TOG does tolerate the Free Traders, and they
anyone else's struggle but absolutely willing to fight hock in the best way
thrive.within this tolerance.They also realize that TOG could force then
they cin when aliacked.Thcyare Loo difficuli to takc, rcally do not havc
lodestroy thir own wayof life,sothcy strictly guard thcirneutrality and
cnough resources to make owning them valunble, nd are more than
tum a profit on every deal.
willing to allow TOG agents to operale on their worids is long as their
neutrality is not compromised. Given thatsetof facts, leavine them alone
makes logistical sense in that, at the very least. TOG does not hive to
commitgamson troops to.keepthcir-worids.

--- PAGE 149 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
BAUFRIN
The Buufrin are the strangest fom of life found in the galaxy.
cxoskeleton. Thccxoskelcton works as well as Lonica armor AF 3)
Mankind's first meetinewith.them, in the year 3000, was heralded by
mainly becauseit cun provide boih shock and ablative protection withoul
mary as the firstmccting of Mankind with the forces of Satan.While not
hurtine the Baofrin.
quite looking like a traditional demon, the insectoid Baufrin certainly did
Thc molting docs more than just change the outside of the Baufrin.
qualify as the rulers of Mankind's worst nightmares, To the surprise of
it also creates radical personality shifts.In many cases the Baufhin totally
cveryonc,the Baufrin also proved to be reasonable, intelligent, and as
forget who thoy wcre and seek out new relationships. Because they have
wiling to avoid combat as any other rationnd spccies Yet despite
an affiniry for tasks they once perfonned,and are very adept at recovering
Mankind's long allinnce with the Baufrin,they still are almost as myste-
these skillsalmost immediatelyaficr moding, it is believed their brain is
rious as they were when we first met them.
not "wiped cleanduring the change. Instead, researchers believe,their
former personality retrcats into their bmin and a new personality is
BIOLOGY
allowed to appear. The Baufrin do not acknowledge this human theory:
trealing itasif it were blasphemousbut cenain studies indicate thatit
The Baufrin are mostcasilydescribed as centaur-like spidennen.Six
mighi betrue
The ultraviolet light theory was confirmed during a very unusual
legs extend down from their ahdomen and their thorax is held uput a 9or
incident.An independent irader haid a Baufrin navigatorwho began to get
angletothe ground Their thorax has four amns, The upper pair is used for
delicate and precise actions and the lower, longer pair is used for things
a pinkush tnt tohis exoskeleton. Themedical olficer.dnlicd iwo holes in
the exoskeleton and circulated the Baufrin eguivalent of blood througha
thar reguire strength, Baufnin stnnd about I meler tall and weigh in at Go
clear tube that he subjecled to very strong UV light. This treatment
kilos.mostof that coming in the chitinous exoskeleton that covers their
body..
delayed the onsetof molt for 3.months, with treatment requiring "illumi-
Baufrin have a quadruple set of mandibles and three pairs of eyes.
nation3 hoursaday forthecntirc timc.
The Baufrinclaim they only havea So year life span, butaside from
Each oftheireve pairs sces light in a stightiydifferent range,sothey have
cplor vaniation in the exoskeleton.physiologists cannot detectany loss.of
sightthat is'considered much shanper thanhuman siehi, Two homlike
abilities.from onemolttoanother.Becauseno onehasever seen aninfant
protrusions from the sides of their heads are used to conduct sound to thelr
or juvenile of the mother sex, and no one has ever seen arr Independent
car sacs, but do not function that well and make then somewhal deaf by
Elder.a strange theory has cropped up among Human and Narim
huinan standards.
researchers,They believe that after the So years ofadult life,some of
The Baufrin exoskeleton is gcncrally an emerald green color. but it
the Baufrin become mothers, and after yet more time mothers become
tends to deepen and take on blue shades as a Baufnin ages The inmiricale
striping on the exoskeleton varies and is thought to reflect sonething
Independent Elders.
The Baufrin refuse to discuss this theory because mothers and
about the individual the Baufrin was before his lnst molt. The Baufrin
Independent Elders have iniportant positions within their religion. Re-
continue to erow throughout their So-year Tife spnn and molt every 8
searchers have thconized cach mother cares fortwo clutchcs of young for
years. This molting process is traumatic and occurs after the Baufrin
enters aperiodof fertile,sexual frenzy.During this sexually fertilepenod
roughly l6 years before they go off and molt ordie.Those mothcrs who
molt become Independent Elders and Independent Elders, thcy bclieve.
the male and female Baufrin xoskeletons becomea bnighi, livid red.
undergo a reintegration of their various personalities twith a molrevery
The Baufrin remain virtually asexual until the time of mtating.and
8 years.or so, that gives an Elder 7 personalities,including the mother
then require three sexes for reproduction.male Temale and mothcr.A
personality).These Elders, then,have 7 personalities to provide input on
Baufrin may assumeeitherdhemaleorfemaleroleatthetineol mating
it's believed thar the mother produces pheromones that help sexual
problems.
No one has even begun to guess at the age ar which an Elder might
determination.The male and female deposit sperm and ova within the
die.butreferencestocertain Elders suggestthat itmightbeasmuch astwo
mother. The mother gives binth toa clutch of eggs thal are altachcd to her
abdomen within a clear mucus fiim. Each mating produces anywhere
centunes.
from50to150eggs,ofwhich5to1eproveviable,EachBaufrin reaches
HISTORY
matunty by its second molt.
Molting presents certhin problenis forthe Baufrin.It is believed that
astheyagc.theexoskeleton becomesthickerand preventsuliravioletlight
Very litle is known of Baufrin history before Human contact. The
from gelting through the skeleton. UV tighi is necessary for the produc-
Baufrin claim the planet Baufrinos as their homeworld and evidence a
tion of an enzyine that helps deal with blood loxicity,When too nany
steady expansion that sugpests they developed T-Space drives while
toxins build up, the exoskeleton tums red,and the Baufrin mate and then
mankind was still exterminatine the wooly mammoth Their galacuc
shed cheirexoskelelon.Theirnew fleshis soft for12 to 24 hours,Jandmany
exploration managed lo avoid any other sentient race until they ran into
of the blood ioxins ooze through it to help strengthen and siiffen the new
mankind in the area now known as Shannedam County.

--- PAGE 150 [OCR] ---
The initial Baufrin/Human contact was hampered by their physio.
logicaldifferences and che inability of Hunan leaders to locateandspeak
with Independent Elders, The brief fighting on Shannedam IV showed
that the two species were equally competent militarists, Hurman leaders
realized ihe Baufrin oniy bccame ageressive when pressured by attacks.
so things cooled to a state of amed neutrality while leadcrs met
Human negotiators bave tindicated that discussions with Baufrin
Indepencient ElderswerenoteasyThe Elders swath themselves in silken
robes that many people believe are woven of silk the Elder produces
himselr teven though nonc ofthc other Baufnin sexes/life stages havethal
ability.The robes vary in colorand the intricalcpatems woven into the
gowa are reminiscent of the striations on a Baufrih carapace but no
Baufrin will cved hintatwhat they meun.
Aside from wearing more clothing thal others of their race, the
IndependentElders havetheannoying habit froma Human pointofview.
of falling silent for what one man tefemed to asintemal discussions
before they render  decision In this state it is virtually impossible to
detcrmine if a Baufrin is alive or dead which causcd a aumber of tense
moments until humans bccanme accustomcd to the behavior.
Once the two sides reached an agreement to live together. Baufrin/
Human cooperalion becume legcndary.Human settlers often forged a
symbiotic relationship with Baufrin neighbors becuse of humunity's
extended life span and ability to remcmber more than just the last s years.
Humans would tend to agniculture and the Baufrin would undertake
difficulr tasks, like mining.thnt suited them better than Humans.
The Baufrin did not suffer physically from the Snow Plague,but they
decply felt the loss of their Hurman friends, There were numerous reports
ofwhole Baufrin families entering cavens to inducemoling prematurey
so they could shed thedecp griefiheyfelt overthedeaths of thetr friernds
Many moving Buufrin pocns were wnnen during that time.and they are
often guoted by Baufrin who Volunteer for the Commonwcalth tor TOG)
amed Torces.
Because of their differences in size, the largcr KessRith had diffi-
culty following Baufrin resistance leaders everywherethywenl, so they
brought in Ssora mercenaries who were beller suited to the job.The Ssora
thought nothing of chasing afierthesc spiderpeople and if Baufrin reports
are to be belleved,the Ssora even found the Baufrin tasty.As a result of
this period the Baufrin are not very friendly with Ssora in general and do
not trust them in large numbers.[Editor's Note: The Ssora love of strong
central govemment is most likelythe root of this connict but the more
visceral story certainly explains the dcpthof Baufrin distrust of Ssora.l
The Baufrin appreciated Alexander Trajan's help in the Common-
wealth uprising.but felt they had to negotiate a pcace with the KessRith
because of ithe tendencies shown by Trajan's govemmen,Based largely
on the rise of slavery in New Ronie holdings the Baufrin feared the sort
of repressive govemmcnt that finally did arise under TOG, and they
wanled no part of it.
Since the TOG declaration of war against the Conmonwealth, the
Baufnin have relinquished directcontrol of the govemment Aside from
the fict that they dishike a strong govemment, they realize that the mental
longevityof Human,Narm and KessRih make them more suitoble
leaders,While ir is believed thar Independert Elders could supply yet
greater longevity.to bring them into the govermment would be profaning
the sacred,Even so, Independent Elders are not reticent about providing
advice for the Regent or tecommending an outstanding Baufrin for
considerationas Regent

--- PAGE 151 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGG
OGGGGOGGGGGGGGGGG
CULTURE
The Independent Elders serve as direct authority over districts and
are obeyed without qucstion, There s no appcal from the decision of an
Independent Elder. but they rurely issue truly harsh nulingse There is
The Baufnn culiure is based around ho uniad family unit of male
evidence that Independent Elders remain in communication with cnch
femaleandmother.Amothertakescareofherclutchofchildrenuntilthey
other, and some have suggcsted that Elders have  telepathic link with
reach maturity,but that will not prevent her from bearing another clutch.
thcir pcers, No inifonmation is available on the mumber of Elders and
Afierbeing impregnated,themother locates a newly molted pair to fomn
whether or not they.cvcr come together to discuss itenis of great impor-
a family unit Thcyhelpalsethe children and later imipregnatethe mother
Tance.
again Editor's Note Because it is very difficult for a human to distin-
The difficulty human leadership first encountered with the Baufrin
guish betwoen Baufrin, the possibility that mothers survive forever
highlights the "hands-off' atirude the Baufrin Hke to foster. Human
cannot be discounted, The authior fs, once again, merely presenting the
envoys consistently reguested that they be taken to the Baufrin leader, bul
most recent theory on Baufrin soclety and biology.l
each Baufrin simply pointed out the mother of his own family.When the
Because moling can cause radical personality shifts in an individ-
mothers were consulted, each of them indicated a different Independent
ual,they are treated by society us totally new pcople afier the molt This
Eldet, Only by comparing the names of the Independent Elders and
Inck of rcliability and constancy has created in the Baufrin a distrust for
polling a few of them afier a lengthy searchwere Humans able to
anyorganization bronderthan thefumilyunit,which is seldom largerthan
determine the name of an Elder who scemed to be respected by a fair
3o individunls counting offspning. adoptees and surrogate mothers
number of the Baufrin.Despiie realizing the apparent nced of Humins to
Mothers doninate thefamily umit, with the mystenous Independent
converse with a single leader, the Baufrin initially put Hunans through
Elders serving as advisors and the final arbiters of conflict.
this.same chnse over and overagain.
Molting also provides a unique fom of punishment for those who
commit truly heinous crines, Whereas perty crimes are punished by exile
PHILOSOPHY
or imprisonnent serious crimes are handled by imprisoning the individ-
ual without uluravloler light Apparenly.in such a placo,the individunl
Baufrin philosophy is virtually impossible to organize or quantify in
former personaliry has becn excculed and the new personality rejoins
termns that the Human mind can grasp. The Baufrin love of family Is
COCICLY.
incredibly strong. Their respect for the authonty of the Independent
The Independent Elders seem to be a rough cross between traveling
Elders is unquestioned, but their hatred of surong central nuthonity ts
circuit judges prophets and saints. The Baufrin are strong traditionalists
neary pathological in its intensity, How they manage to view the Elders
and keep copious records both about what they have done and what
as religious figures worthy of respcct, but politicnl leaders as reprobates.
Independent Elders have sald This has obvious importance in a sociely
is difficult for anyonebut Baufrin to reconcile..
where you might "die"every S years, and Baufrin who read about their
Theyapprecintethesclflessbruveryof Human,Naram andKessRith
own past exploits in their own diaries assume they are reading about a
heroes who are willing to sacrifice themselves forothers,yet few Baufrin
third pany.Elders he keenly aware of what other Elders have said,and
are willing to do the same,This reluctance has been seen boh as dhe fear
do whatever they can to avoid coniradicting previous adyicc and rul-
of destroying a fanily and the fear of sacnificing a potential Elder.
ings Hhough offeringapersonal insightorclarification on acaseby case
Envy and jealousydo not secm to be emotions the Baufnn recpgnize
basis is perfectly acceptable.
or uinderstand.Thcy are aware of the chinges that they will uindergo when
On he whole the Baufrin ire a kind, considerie and deferential
they moll so they seem to constantly be experiencing and leaming as
pecople They quictly adine Humans and Naruin for their wild unpre-
much as they can, yet without the intrusive cunosity of the Vauvusar.
dictabjlity cfronthe Baufin pointof viewand their stnunch defense of
They are nearly always well-minnered.
personal freedom.The Baufrin dislike of TOG stoms not so much from
They do have a sense of humor and even chitier/laugh at themselves
a love of freedomewhich thcy cqunte wih being an ophn a most
whcn thcy make an crror or do something funny, Whereas a Ssona would
homible condition Hhan from their intense hatned of my autocratic
die otembarrassment atnidiculc,a Baufrin mighteven invite repetition of
govenment attempting lo force its ideas upon them.
the occurtence to insure he had gotien it corectly fixed in his mind
GOVERNMENT
EVALUATION
It has been obsdrved that the Banfrin have govemment by anarchy
The Baufrin fom an inieresting countcrpartto humanity.They don't
butthis indicates grossienorance on the purtoftheobserver.The Baufnin
secm to struggle as hurd agninst the inevitability of death bccause oftheir
govemmentalstructurestronglyparallelsthefamilyunit,andcachfamily
freguent bnushes with psychological oblivicn. Their unease with central
hns bcen tenned akinstatein which the family is seen as its own litdle
govemments is a necessary touchstone that stops the Commonwealth
nation. Alliances between thcse kinstales re common and focilitate the
from becoming too much like the enemy they arc seeking to repcl.
exchanging of mohers and panent pairs. Soniekinstate allininices take on
a more fomal stnuctuire as they aise and prepare the individials who
dominate pardcular occupanons

--- PAGE 152 [OCR] ---
GGG
KESSRITH
For the first threethoisand years of Human/KessRith.contactthe
HISTORY
KessRith wete implacable foes who neither granted quaricr or expected
it. Since that time, they huve also proven powerful and loyal allies to the
3214 was the year in which a mixed Hamnn/Naram taskforce ran
Commonwealth.Theirfatalisticoutlook on lifecolorsverything theyarc
afoul of a KessRith clan fleet overthe Naram world of TlocaThe initial
and do, but their sense of humor mocks this morc senous side of their
engagemnent should havebeen, nt best,a draw for the KessRith, but they
nalure.
kept coming even when their largest cruiser was falling apart The
humianoids managedtodestroy it but they look severecasualties on their
BIOLOGY
lagshipindoing so.The KessRithfeetvanishedinto T-Space,butwithin
S monihis was back to contest the worid again
Like the duckbilled platypus,the KessRih have boen put fonh as
The second baitle of Tloca went better for the humnoids but again
proof thal God has a sense of humor Centauroid in configuration, they
theKessRith semed to preferdeath to cuimender. It was only laterthat the
combine the body of a rhinoceros with a powerful nil and a torso that
humans realized the Clan was on a Frchaki-gcog-a Clanhunt-
makes human gladialcrs look weak.Theirheadtests on a'strong bull neck
becausethey had been driven from theirold hothe by aclan schismTheir
and theirgaping mouth is lined with teeththat look andfunction much like
choice was to find ancwhonewarld ordie Mostofdhem did die,andthe
thoseofa teesirial shark. Theirhands havefourfingers and n opposable
remaining leaders asked fora truce sothey couldrepnirthcirwarshipsand
thumb,but their four feer have only two tocs.apiece,
join thebiileagain
Thick,leshy plates captheir tailand protect their torso,anms, neck
The Naram Grand Elders of Toca finally realized whythe KessRith
and skull, While KessRith appear to most non-KessRith as gray in color.
clan was fighting so hard, They offered to lerthe KessRith land in peace
the KessRith claim they can detect racial differences among themselves.
and join them.TheKessRithcommander wassoangered by thisofer,he
Their eyes are red and tend totake on a crimson glow in the backlight of
took his destroyer into the amosphere and strafed the ruling council
amonitor ortlashlight.
comples.Thedestroyeritselfwas destroyed,but the KessRith replytothe
The KessRithare built for heavy conbai.They are,withouta doubt.
Council's offer was understobd.
the strongestof the senticnt races and chey value physical strength.In fact.
Thc KessRith discovered T-Space lechifology about the ane time
stnuggle is so noble, for all but preenant femulesthat few KessRith
the Naram and Hunansmet Whiletheyclaim tohavemadethediscovery
actunlly reuch the loo years of age thcir physiology would allow them.
on their own, evidence suggests they co-opted the lechnology from the
Most die 2o to 30 years pnemalurely,though no KessRith would use that
Ssora. The KessRith had undertaken Interstellar colonizntion using gen-
term if an individual died in battle.
eration shipsgiant biospheres designed to provide a homc for genera-
Pregnancies last for 23 standard months (which is approximately
tion afier genention of KessRith while they traveled across the vast
one year on Sovi' KessRoth, the KessRith homneworid) and calves are
distances berween stars, Ssora raiders found one of dhese ships ind madc
capable of locomorion within twro hours of birth While female KessRith
the mistake of opening what tumed out to bc a Pandora s Box.
have nobreasts and do not lactate,theyare regurgitatea thick,notrishing
While it may be true that the KessRith got T-Spnce drives from the
mucus with the color and consistency of wamn caramel to feed their
Ssora they, like Trajan, did more with Ssona technoloey than the Ssora
young The young reach maturity in IS years,and theaverge femalewill
ever did. Being powerful and warlike, they swept through space like
bear children fromn thattimc totheaeeof 4o.
barbarian hordes, They worned less about finding suitable worlds to
Mone than one calf al a tine is unusual. because KessRith females
colonizethan they did aboul finding focs tofight Fora shorttime it looked
are able to control thelr rale of pregnancy.Fron a single impregnation a
as if they would devotc themselves to wiping ouit the Ssora, but Rlarka
female can retain cnough genetic material to fenilize as many as adozen
GosKler.the Leader of All Clansdenecied them.Tn whai became che
cggs This means a KessRith warrior can continue to provide genetic
ruling sentimeni from 2650 to 3214, he asked,"How is it belter to pursue
material for overa decade afrer his death.
an inferior foe than to accept the challenges of besting a world?!
FemaleKessRith can induce pregnancy ifthey havea store ofsperm.
The KessRith threw thernselves into transforming worlds, creating
provided the local conditions are appropriate for gestation, The female's
hot,arid savannahs, Clanhunts becane a way to splitoff a portion of che
hormonal balance is dependent upon the availability of food and water.
population to find and prepare another world These fragmented clans
Themale/femaleratioof l toSts similartothatofmieatoryherdanimnls.
remain allied despite the trauma of being forced off a homcworld by
The development of  partlally upright pdsture has been seen as a survival
brothersand sisiers.
trait for sunveying he local area for predutors CThemind boggles at what
Before Tloca,the KessRithhadmetnospecies they consideredtobe
could have ealen the KessRih, and the fossils in the KessRith Museum
worthy foes.CKessRith historinns begrudgingly adriitthatthe Ssora were
of Natunl Histony mtake terrestrial dinosaurs look like salamanders.)
an annoyance, but they hasten to point out that Alexander T'njan aiccom-
plished miore in three years using Ssora ships and tactics than the Ssora
had in the three milleinia they had battled with the KessRith.y With the
discoveryofmankind,KessRith philosophy begana slow transfonmation.

--- PAGE 153 [OCR] ---
KessRith incursions into Humin dnd Naram territory incrascd,and the
KessRith frenzy for batie became somcthing mothcrs used to fmighten
bad children. If the KessRith lost a world with a lO-shiptaskforce,you
could be certain a 2o.ship tuskforcc would soon show up. Efforts to
appease them only angered the KessRith and provoked them to commit
what Humans yicwedas atrocities.
Then, the quick and deadly counse of the Snow Plague allowed
KessRith forces to swcep over the Naram, Human and Commonwealth
wcrlds.The virulence of the opposition that still faced them surprisod the
KessRith but il did little more than slow the juggemaut. Those Humans
who couldescaped Those who could not were enslaved.
So itremained until the risc of Alexandet Trujn.
The Human revoll surprised the KessRith They had pot expected
Trujan's move in splitting them from the Ssora KessRith society also
hampered them because of the way thar an individuad KessRith wamior
saw himself within thal socicty. His loyalty was, in this ordcr, lo bis
fomily,his homeworld,his profession and finally the ruling Quoga Clan.
When the revolt in the Commonwealth drove the troops out many
remaining KessRith identified with thcir homeworid and local family
They cameto look upon the Commonwealth as theirncw ruling clin,and
the quick alliance between the Conmonwealth and ithe KessRith Empire
hclped assuage whatever guili might have remained in Commonwealth
KessRith
CULTURE
The KessRith are organized into extended polygamous familyiclan
units that gencrally include thousands of individuals,Each mnle has one
to five wivesdhe number detemmined by the Doininator as a sign of the
male's rank within the fomilyThe Dominator is.the senior male ofa
family,and his tenure in that post is still ofien decided by combat,though
poitical and occupational skill make it gcod idea to leave a physically
weak but otherwise powerful male in charge of the family.
The typical family unit consists of a Domintor.his wives,his scns
and theirwives,Fenale KessRidh leavetheir family and join that of their
husband. Family umits combine into herds based on related Domninalors.
The Patriarch is thestroneestofthe herd's Dominators. Herds form clans
the Targcst social group.
A Dominaloris subjectonlytohis Patriarch.Heallocatesthc number
of wives any individunl may have and can cven order one mle to
surrender a wife to another. The Patriarch can do the same, cven moving
somcone from one family to another, The Clan Patriatch has the same
power on the clan level: no onc questions unless he is prepared to baitle
forrankanddornination onthat level
With sentience,theKessRithhave realized thar brule strength is not
the way to decide Domination A Domination banle takes place in three
parts, a survival challenge (to pit the candidates against dhe world),a
mental/verbalchallenge(totesttheirreasoningabilityagainstcachother)
and physical combat, Because of the impontance of the first and second
tests in deciding doninance, shurpbut physically infenor KessRith may
becomea Domitnatorand will be accorded allduerespectfor thal position.
This atso allows the KessRith to recognizc supenor-ability amcng
other species in the galaxy The KessRith often enjoy mdlavogo
"swatlesscombntisarough translarion.Thisisafom ofverbal spaning
that involves intricate wordplay,and the humnan affinity for pumning has
madethem Tavored pialervoga contestanls

--- PAGE 154 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGOGGGGGGG
GGGGG
Because inheritance and'descentare figured palernially,and because
PHILOSOPHY
it Is a polygaumous system, it would appear that womcr are Tintle.valued
and have no Importance beyond raising children. This is mot true.The
The dominant philosophy among the KessRith can be summed up
KessRith arc cgalitarian about the positionof womcn in society nd they
simplyt a bull isdefined by the challenges he has acccpied and exalted in
accept them into themiliinryon an equal footing with males.Women are
the strugeles he has won, It is simple yet eloquent. KessRith do not bear
Timited in politics, but"puppet Dominators"are not unknown More
gnudges because they respect those who are able to defeat them. As withi
importantlywcmenkeeptrack ofbloodlinestsincetheyknow forccrtain
the initinl batles betwcen the KessRith and Humanity, a defeated
who the father of their children is and make sure that marriaees do not
KessRith will alwavs strive to fight once morc, lthis is seen as bomngc
combine poor genetics, As marriage panners gcncrally cone from herds
paid tothe victor.
Within the same clan, genetic conipatibility is constantly ovcrsccn.
Without doubtthe KessRith see TOG as the greatestchallcnge they
Banles between clans are common.though civilization has changcd
havcever faced They know that to lose the stnuggle against TOG is to be
things from the days when two clans would array themselves on a dusty
extcmminated as a race,This they refuseto accept and fight on to prevemt
plain fora fiehtto thc death.Now Banker Clans wage inancial war with
it. They recognize,yaluc and respcct the abilities.of their allies in this
other Bankcr Clans, and so forth, Onc hunnn historian characterized
strugele
these banles as mixing the wcrst parts of corporate raiding with organized
The KessRith have a wery strict code of honor thal binds thein to
crine wars. Dueling is still legal,however.and rue is the KessRith who
family.homeworldandDomlnant Clan.It governseverything fromforims
allows himself lo get veryfar fromhis sword.
ofaddressfor all tmanerof family,herd andclnn rclations,to theproper
The KessRith respect no one who does not value combat above all.
way to kill oneself to cxpungc a spou on your honor (generally by doing
but despitc this emphasis on conflictthe KessRith are capible ot artistic
whalever you can to take as many of the cncmy with youj. This code
endeavors. Granted, thcy do tend ro martial expression in their art:
specifies 1296 diffetent shndesofdishonorand432 different acts that win
swondmakingamnoring and thelikeare highly valued skills andartforms.
atone for those dishonors. Over 90 atoncments involve dying.
Fighting a ducl with a treasured clan sword then,bccothcs a performance
and is likely to spawn yet onc more lale to be pased fron Dominator to
EVALUATION
child.
Physically imposing the KessRiah are superior combatants, They
GOVERNMENT
canbe goodand loyal fricnds,buttheiruies to family,hchneworid and clan
cin supereede and destroy frlendships if they receivea commhnd to that
KessRith govermmcntal organization isn'L, and is cited as the over-
eftect from ihelr Dorninator  Personal honor and respect of pcers are
whelming ceason the Ssora and KessRith do not get'alongthe Ssora
vitally tmportant to the KessRith, but fawnine ovcr them angers thicm.
cannot nbide disorganization.CThe KessRith maintain the Ssora hate their
govemment because the lintle lizards don 'tknow who to betray to whom.!
Eichclan is an cntity untoitselt,although mostdrerelated oahalf-dozen
other clans because ofa blood link somewhere in the past.CThesc larger
clin groupings are called meta-clans or Unities. When a unity includes
afinancialclan,amanufacturing clanapoliticalclan andamilitary clan
whywould it need mny outside help?
Only if a clan has been defeated in combat with tinother clan docs it
defer to thar othcr elan. The-dominant clans oo a wordd seleci two
representatives to a loosely defined Diet within the Province whcre their
world is locnted, and that Diet then sends representatives to the Council
of Champions on Sovi'KessRothtoselectthe Thirteen Clan Leaders who
rule.The Thirteen choose one of their own as the Grea Dominator and
since the timc of Z'tuc (around Sooo.the Grand Dominator has always
been fromthe Ouoga clan.The cunent Gnand Dominalor IsTyargi Quou
The first major difficulty with the wholesyslem is that no tems of
office are set for any of the govemmental stnictuncs, Somcone from
within a clan groupcould challengeand baulehis wayupthroughthe Diet
and Council to becomc a Clan Leder Z tac did exactlythat Granieda
radical turnover is rurc, bul what happered once could happen again.
The other problem with the systcm is thatdecisions are pusseddown
from on high.butare raified or rejectedall thewaydown tothcclan level.
Mostdecisions are upheld, but the lawof perversity always.comcs anto
effecta This mcans that most elans respect the nghis of Ssona to livein
peace on worids, but others occasionally go ruiding against the Ssora on
awhim.A.clanbattleanddominationmayresulttokccpsuchamogueclan
in its place,butthc phrasehouse rules takcs on a ncwimportancewhen
among the KessRith
161

--- PAGE 155 [OCR] ---
MENELVAGOREANS
Recently discovered and brought inio the Comnonwealth's alliance
This self-awareness mnnifests itselr in a selectivebireeding program
against TOG, Menelvagoreans are  growing cause for concem ainong
and societal scgregation that has produced highbyspecializcd individuals.
TOc's military leadership Powerfully bullt and anned with natural
Like ierrestrial dogs,all of the Menelvagorean"breeds" can interbreed,
wcapons that make thcm a lerror inclosecombat these aliens livetofight.
bu they tend not to, The castes, in descending order, are: Wamiors.
They remain very sccretive about themsclves, but a certain amount of
Pathfinders,Rock shapere,Drones and Philosophers.While Philosophers
infonnation has been produced thpt provides inisight intothese fascinating
are considered thelowest in society,malnly becausethey producenothing
creatures.
tangible, they exen conisiderable influence on society.
Menelvagorcans are hermaphroditic Each has m abdominal
BIOLOGY
pouch sccn as tinle more than a dark line on their stomach that is 
receptacle for a sperm capstile.Eoch also has an opening on the underside
TEditor 's Note: The following physichl chnnacteristics are found
of his tail,where it connects to his body.through which he can produce
within the Warrior caste. It is generally believed the other castes vary
a spem capsule or hay a leathery,fertilized egg, It is not believed thol a
sonewhat From this paintern and are a bit smaller han theirmore bellicose
Menclvagoreancan fertilize his own eggs,but legendstellofonc.wholaid
kin]
a clone egg.
Menelvagorenns stand ovcr two meiers tall and eastly tip the scales
Menclvagoreans generally produce a clutch of four eees thnt tnke a
ar 2o0 kilos. There is no doubt in the mind of anyone just sceing one of
standard year to hatch. The young are able to care for themselves almost
these purple-azure creaturcs that they are capable of incredible feats of
fromn 'the stan, but their parents help look afier them, Aside from the
strength However,they are alsoincredibly quick and dexterous for being
Wariors, who aure allowed to chose.multiple mates and fom complex
so large:Their thick flesh is worked with bony plates, much like theflesh
households, most Menclvagoreans are monogamous and eive birth lo
of an ammadillo.
offspring once per cycle.
Bipedal they rely on their thick, muscular tail for balance, Their
Menelvagoreans slough thcir flesh every nine yea's or so, corre-
hands and feet have threc dieits which end in sturdy claw's The feet have
sponding to onc complete orbit of thcir worid The process is not so much
one loe reversed, for grasping.while the hand has a powerful, opposable
painfutas it is annoying. Most Menelvagoreans endure this time alone and
thumb,The tail ends in a bony tip that, when certin muscles are flexed.
spend the wcek or so it takes in reflection on their life since the last
splits into three prongs, similar to a grappling hook.
shedding. The Menelvagoreans are believed to live about 4oo to So0
The head has a narrow, julting muzzle that protrudes.about 15
standard years, so they perform this soul scarching approximatcly So
centimhelers from its Face,and ihrec cyes arranged in a tnangular pattem.
times during their fifetime. (Sloughed Menelvagorean skin, obtained
The eves see from normal ligbtthrough ultravioletand a sensory pit onthe
from the few gladitorial champions in the TOG arenas, is the leather of
end of ihe nosc has limited heat-sensine ability. Menelvagorcan cars are
choicc among the wives of senators.J Tt is thoughi they reach sexual
Hitle more than holes in the sides of the head but they have a tunge of
malurity anerthrec sloughings.
bearing thal exiends from human nom down.to vcry low frequencies.
The Menelvagorcans have a croaking, clicking specch they use to
including the sounds of earth trcmors nd other subtle vibrations.
cornmunicate among themselves, bul they have adapted well to more
Menelyagoreans live on a strange world inatriple star system Theil
nomal speech Their voice tends to be very deep, bul is capable of high.
World has an elliptical orbitoddly constrained by the gravitational forces
pitched squeals of ccstasy when combat is joined.
af thestan inihesystem tthoughthe smallestandmostdistant of thcstars
really exerts liule imfluence on iny. Life sprang up im the masslve, ever-
HISTORY
shifing fissures beneath the strface of this very hot world, the Menelvag-
oreans represent the highest form of that life Their claws and grappling
Linle has been discovered of Menelvagorean history in the So years
hook tail allowcd thc anclen Menelvagoreans to traversc the dangerous
since we met them. Their world was spolted by Commonwealth survey
byways of the crevasses simllarly to the way monkcys move through
teanis well before the Snow Plague hit They classed tt ns a possible
trees and the jutting muzzle becane useful for geuing prey oun from
Gennium-Arsenic source,but gave it a Craling because the world was so
within smallcracks Thebonyfleshstoppedcutson jageed rocksandeven
inhospitableTheatmospherecontains ox ygen and nitrogenbutit has too
helped preventdamage from rockslides
high concentrutions of sulphur and chlorine to make i easy to work in.
The Menelvagoreans reached self-awareness fairty swifily bccausc
Only aner the loss of other worids did survey teams cone back to
a conscious knowledge of selfwas thc only way for thcm to survivc ona
Menclvagor to try to gel a bellcr idea of its potential, They ran into
jigsaw world where the pieces keep shifing. curting off one hunting
Warriors and had sorne iense moments before the Menelvagoredns
ground and opening another, The plunet's crbit takes nine standard years
realized that ani-tank shells could make quite a dent in their hide, The
toconplete,and the landscape shifts throughoul this cycle as gravita
survey crews immedialely called down their contingentof Royal Marines
tional tides tug at the world, so recognizing "scasonsand migrating
and the very intelligeni Colonel Roger Myati inducted the Menelvag-
correcily to avoid being cut off from food was yery imiportant.
orean leader into his own unt the354th Royal uards tnicknamed the.
'Rock Liznrds  fortheirabilities inmountain and harshtcrrainassaultsy

--- PAGE 156 [OCR] ---
OGGGI
The mutualrespectof warriors foroneanotherfommeda bond hatenabled
cooler heads among thc corps of diplomiats and Pathfinders to work oul
agreeiments.
Menclvagoreans have joined the Commonwcalth military in highly
specialized units.The Menclvagoreans organizethemselves in Eyes,or
triads of warniors,Three Eyes are a Sqund, and three Squads are a Group.
Menelvagoreans resist being placed in groups numberingmore than 27-
a number that has neardly religious significance to them. The Common-
wealth would love to have a legion of these wariors, but'the Menelvag.
oreans steadfastly refusc atiempts.to form them into larger units. CThe
Commonwealth,byoffering facilities tobuild a warship,have succeeded
in getting the Warriors to agrec to supply 486.crew for the ship.bul the
majority.of the crew will come from other than the Warrior.class.)
Menelvagorean Eyes have been dropped behind lmpenial lines be-
fore and during diffhicult assaults, Each 3-man team is virtually self-suf-
fieient and views it as a mark of hoor to see how long they cancontinuc
In the ficld before having to call in supplies and more ammunition.
Asmall numberofMenclvagoreanshavebeenknockedunconscious
nd taken prisoner by TOG, Thesc individuals show absoluteby no
reluctance to fight for TOG as long as they are aot pitted against their
fomer Commonwealth unit.There is.even some question if they realizc
they have switched sides in the war.They live for combatand it is notthe
place of Wamiors to wony nbout politics or the whims of the gods, The
few Warriors whohave been made gladiators believe thcy have it bestof
all,with a ncwToe everyday
CULTURE
Itappears,on the surface,that Wamiors ruleMenelvagorean culture
and thteveryoneelse bows and scrapesfortheir benefit.This isnot really
the case, There is no doubt that Wamors are highly respected and even
feared Theyarenot stupid,but theirconcems aredirected toward warfare
in all itsmyniad fons, All else,to them,pales by comparison.
The odher casies have their own powers,Thc Pathfinders are the
scholars of the soclety and include scientists, politicians and inventors.
While Warriors sonietimes forego anything but their natural eouipment,
the lowerclasses use tools sothey canbelteraccomplish theirtasks. Arthe
time of firstcontact, Menclvagorean sociely had progressed to a techno.
logical level roughly equivalent to early z2nd-centugy Earih
The first Pathfinders were responsible for searching out the proper
routes through the twisting and shifing plates of rock. Even today.
mcmbers of the Pathfinder caste leamn these basics bcfore thcy go on to
higher studies.
Rockshapers are the nexr highest class because they located and
maintained rock chambers, As civilization became more sophisticated.
the Rockshapcrs bnoadened theirareas ofexpertiseuntil they becomethe
technicians and practical folks of the world. These are the"skilled labor
ofMenclvagorean socicly.
Drones can be skilled nbor but their skills are more difficulr to
quantify. Drones include bookkeepers, computer programmers, arntists
and writers. Pathfinders and Rockshapers recognize thevalue of Drones.
and Drones do not fecl oppressed by their status within society.Certain
of them, from time to time, get upset with the bullying they get from
Warriors, but beyond that life is actually rather confortable for them.
Philosophers fomn a tiniquc class in thatit stands atthe botam of the
social ndder,butis aclassfmtowhichoneis"elevatedby the Waiors
The Wariors assign people io this class so thcy will be free to do nothing

--- PAGE 157 [OCR] ---
GGGGGG
GGGGOGGGGGG
butthinkand examinc and report.Itis consideredagreat honorto be made
PHILOSOPHY
a Philosopher,and is generally seen s the reward for a speciacular life.
but because they produce nothing thcy are set on the lowest rung of
Having only Warmiors to reflect Menclvagoreani society has pro
sociery Editor's Note The Warriors say thit whut they thenselves
vided a skewed view of thcse people. No one would suggest they are a
contnbute lo socicty isthe opportunityfor lifetocontinue.As violence is
Lindly pacifisticracc bccausethat is patently untrue Even so.Menelvag.
almost solely their province.this could, in faci,be truc. By taking thal
burden on rhemselves they prevent thc society from sinking into the
to beautiful rock fomnitions, constellations and flora than thcy do to thc
morassofviolentanarchy.J
cncmy.These savage wariors have theability toappreciate bcauty.It has
Families are conposed of two adults and up to 16offspring in scts
been suggested thar Warriors, because they acccpt and bear the mantie of
of four.Inheritance is figured by the partner who produced the sperm
destruction withintheirsociety,sce itas thcirduty todirecttheir fearsome
capsale Warriors often have foar or more adults in a family group, yet
power at'deserving targets while preserving those thinigs worth preserv-
maintain roughly as large a set of offspring This larger grouping is
ing.
armnged so the young can be reared despite the possibility of losing an
Menelvagorean warriors also have a poetic tradition in which they
adult to combal.
record teir cxploits,Rendered in moneormal spcech,thepxetry hasan
almost cyclical rhvthm, but does not contain rhymes and is very sparing
GOVERNMENT
on alliteration.From this it has been supposcd that the other castes miighi
alsd express thenselvcs-through art of one sont or aniothcr.
Wanriors. who listen closely to the advice of Philosophers,are the
final arbiters in alldisputesa The Pathfinders organize and elect goverm-
EVALUATION
mental officiuls who write and pass legislation on local and planetnry
fevelsThey get much of their input from ihe Guilds that are organized
Menelvagorean Warniors love and live to fight They are the buffer
within thc Rockshuper.Pathfinderand Drone classes.butonly Pathfind
that keeps the rest of their socicty frec of strife and destruction Ii is
ers mayholdofficc.
believed that Warriors arefully cognizantof their position and its import.
There are three level of law within Menelvagorcan socicty,The
This is the reason behind their willingness to teave thcir worid to fght:
lowestis Guild LawandonlyappliestoindividualswithintheGuildwhile
their cooperation prevents the Commonwealth from occupying their
thcy areat work,As far as Waiors dre concemed Guild Law has notmore
world to take their Gennum-Arsenic and their fighting kecps TOG from
Welehi than common custom, For examole, if a Guildnaster burs a
comingtotaketheirworid.Theyarc locked ina desperategameofplaying
foneman from makinig his crew of shipwehis work on astar cruiser
both cnds against the middle,arid their destruction is assuned if they lcse.
during a holiday, the Warriorsi seeing the ncod for the cnuiscr as more
importantwould overule the Guildmaster.
The second level of law is Administrative Law This is a series of
administrtive edicts created by the Pathfinders They are binding on
sociery and can only be overruled a Waior, As death is a possible
outcome of any conflict between Warrior and law-mnking Pathfinder.
regulations remain Tair and are only appcaled in extreme cases
Finally and foremost there is Warrior Law,These are laws created
by either Warriors or Pathfinders and acknowledged by one or more
Wamior. A conflict bclwccn two of these laws pits Warricr againsi
Warrior, with might making ight. lf a Philosopher cannot convince a
Warrior thai a law is bnd and ought not to be acknowledged thul
Philosophcrshould bc ableto convince one ormore Wariors to banle fot
thelaw'smodification.
Conflicts with Warniors are resolved by ccmbat. It is not unheard-of
for a non-Waior to defeat a Warrior. but it is rare, Wamior vanity
immediatelycauses the adoption of sucha victor intoitscaste,confinming
his position on the combaltcd issue with the force of a Warrior:
Civil matters areSenled wfth fines or enforced libor projects:
Violent crimes result in capital punishnedt, administered swifily and
surely.Lntheeventan innocentindividual isslain fora crime.and therenl
perpetrator is found, that individual anid his entire family is destroyed to
Weed his genes out of ihe species As a result,most violent criminals
present themsclves for judgment to preserve their tamilies The violently
insaneare grven care Tora cycle Ifthey have not becn cured for havenot
cured themselvesh by the nexttimethey sloueh hey are slain.The non
violent insane are cared for and provided emiploymentatsimple tasksthat
make thern think they are valued within the society.

--- PAGE 158 [OCR] ---
GGGG
NARAM
The Narim were the first T.Spice capable race mankind metTheir
thetechnology thal produced spacetravelwas sonchow limked tothe war
simillantytomankindwasiakenasasignihatmanandhiscloscallieswere
that nearty destroved their homeworid Iiis not believed the Naram had
meant to rule the galaxy.a sentimcn thal continues today within ToOG.
T-Spucetechnologyat that time,or if theydid it was not nefined.Still,the
Through the centuresof close associaticn and inlerinamagewith man
fuct that one migritory spaceship made it to a new worid his been used
kind.the Naram havcprescnied menwith an interesting mirrorinwhich
to sugeestthal perhapsanothermadeitallthewayto Earnhtoestablish the
tosee whut we tmiahi have become hadcircumstances bcen differenl:
human race,or yet furthcrto anothcr galaxy whcre more Naram wait to
be reunitcd with their progenitors.tA Naram arrival early enough tohave
BIOLOGY
established Humanity is generally discounted.)
While the Naram attempted tokecp conflict outofiheir lives on this
The range of physiological traits shared between ihe Naram ind
new worid it did anise. More wars,over the course of the next 3oo.ooo
Human species is truly remarkable. The Naram tend to be slightly taller
years, took the Nirm to the brink of extinction on no less than four
and more slender than the avenege Humnan.Their range of skin,eye and
OCCaSIOS.
hircolorsisnnorthan Hununnonmn,withblondorblue-eyed Naram
It was during a lull between these wars that a group of Narum
beine rareThe average Naram has darkthick hair and dark eyes Male
"rediscovered interstellar travel and perfected T-Space lechnology.
Naram can grow lush beards, though Hunans lend toward hnving more
Havine been osiracized for breaking the ancicnt taboo against rockcts.
arid heavier body hair than thcir Naram countcrparts,
they lefttofindanotherhomeworid sotheiracecouldbeprceservcdThetr
Genotyping of both Naram and Human beines was one of the first
leider was Maya Tikal and her riaine (shifnted to the possessive Mayan)
ldsks underakenafter the initialcontact in 2461.TheDNA compatibiliry
was givenito her colony on Earth.
workedoutat99.9748255e.Thishlis leod toatestthatcanestablish ifan
Mayan did not Inst very long because of trouble with human
mdividal Is Naram or Human butthe test has somediliculniesassoc
neighbors and intemal. philosophical disagreements. In the cnd the
ated with it First.it is very expensive, And second thc facrthat Tean
Mayans decided to leave Earth and return to their old homeworld The
Mayans wcrc actuallya Nurmo colony mcansthar Naram geneticqudlities
Mayan pacifist movement became very strong when the Mayansretumed
have alcady spread throuehout the Human populalion, Ohviously.
md took on religious sienificance.
Naramand Huimans cnn imterbreed.
The Naram.now aware of Humanity.monitored its.progress for a
Noram pregnancy lasts,on average,two weks longer than human
numbcrofcentinies.Theirinterestpickcdupasmankinddiscoveredradio
gcstation, bu their oftspring maure about rwo years faster. The Naram
and began to broadcast chronicles of worldly happenings, Apparently
alsoseemimimunetomanyofthediseasesthatafflictmankind.thoughthe
Bome Mayan oficiaks pushed for direct Intervention In Human anairs
Sncw Plague did take its loll tmong them as well.Naram lifeexpeciancy
during the Second Worid War.butthey wereoverruled bythanii-Mavan
Esslightlyhoherthan Humannorm
clements in the military.The Naram have denied any connection wih
Thcevoluticnof twososimilarspccics onworids35,o0lightyears
UFOincidents in the late 2Oth century.and their uionitoning recordsseem
apart has spurked all sorts of debate about cverything from Creationism
to suggestthat no interstellarcraft actually visitedour world.(The failure
to punctuuled eyuilibnum.Tribalists Immedistely embmced theNarum
of twoSovietprobes aimedai Mars in1988/1989wasdirectly caused by
as the lost tnbcs of lssael and uscd then toverifythedivinity of the
th Numm to avoid revcnlimgthe location ofthcir lisieningstation
Bibie, Somie evotutionists have even begun to tccep the possibility of
When moankind appeared to be expanding in a direction that mighr
parallel development, As one noted,The thing about statistics is this just
bring them inio conflict with the Narim,the Naram revealed themselves
because the odds aeainst such a thing happenmg are Ss zillion to one,it
to Humanity.Playing upon all they had leamed of Hunanity through the
doesntmeanthatone time won'thoppen.
cenuries of monitoring television broadcasts, the Naram prepared a
damnaged shipand lefi it in a sysiem they krew Humans were bound for.
HISTORY
The crew sent ouia disiress sienal when the Human ship cndered the
system The Humans Imimediately rescued them By the time the Human
Priortothe Naram/Hluman mceting in 2461 the Narun culiurcwent
ship returned to Earth with its cargo,ac Naram task foroe had amived io
fecover lis rescued crew and to open negotiations with Humanity.
through whui their historiansdenuify as.three golden ages. The first
which has become known in popular literature as"the Surfacing took
(Cunouslya numer of the couples who mer through that coniived
pleice in antiquity and on a worid the Naram have vet to identify.
circumstance did remain together)
From that first meeting.Naram and Human worked togethcrclosely
appurenly culminated in an apocalspsc that ocarlydestroyed the Naram
species In fict, somne believe the conflict was race-related and point to it
through culiural and scientific exchangese Both species respecied the
other's territory and workedto bunld up a strong cconomic bond beiween
as thc reason why blond Naram are sorare tnot becuse the blonds lost.
bu becausea eetofdark-haired Naram lefihonie tofind anotherworldy
theirempires.
Aftcr this migration the ncwly-arived Naram disassembled their
Themeetines with the Baufrin KessRithand Ssora bound mankind
starships and setled down to a more pastoral ifestylc possibly bccausc
and the Naram cvcn moreclosely m an altcmpt to stave oi these threals

--- PAGE 159 [OCR] ---
GGOG
lotheirindependence.The KessRith/Ssora captiviywent nocasicron the
Naram.than it did mankind.The Naram munaged to adapt to it because of
the way their culture ncacted to change and sepiation from family.
Whereas a Humantornfrom his family to work asa'slavein adistant World
would considcr himsclf alonc, a Naram would be adopted into  new
family or would forge a family grouparound hinnself.This difference has
been seen as the contrast between mankind's beliefthat God has aplanfor
him versus the Naram philosophy of acting to make a current situation
better insiead of suffering while walting for a sign fron God.
When Alexander Trajan revolted against the Ssora, he found ready
allies m the Naram, With Trajan's suppon, Naram worid after world
exploded with rebellion The KessRith were shocked by the ferocity of a
pcople they had bclieved to beducile forthousandsof years.TheKessRith
realized that tnying to maintain control of thcir Naram holdings would tie
chem downand givethe New Roman Republiceve more targets toshool
al Reluctantly, after twenty years of losing baltles, the KessRith with-
drew from the embattled planets and the Naram established their own
Republic.
In their Human cousins the Narun noted a change. If the captivity
had been a crucible.it served to harden men in a way that disturbed the
Naramn, Thcy kcpt che New Roman Republic at ann's-lengthpolitically
but still coordinated activities with them militarily.This rough cornpro-
mise characterized Naram/Human relations throughout the early devel-
opmeniofTOG
The Seduction of the Narum,as it is known in TOG,or the Rape,as
ttisknown among the Naram,started in6717 when TOG signed a Treaty
of Peace and Fticndship with the Naram Republic Licior ofmixed
HumanNaran blood tnilurated the Republie and converted,conupted
co-opted or compromised political individuals and organizations overthe
next len years. By 6727 roughly 40%e of the Naram Republic's teritory
Was ceded to create ToG's Dalvik District and the restof the nation
becume linlemore than' puppel state.
Since this conversion deep divisions have arisen in Naram society.
Muny people liken it to the old disputes that nearly caused thc extcmina-
tionoftheNaram pcople Leaders on both sides oftheTOG/anti-TOG line
recognize thatopen civil war would allow TOGtocome in to setule things
down They fear an ambitious Diaspora policy being imposed on the
Naram, and the eventual loss of the Naram identily.
CULTURE
The Naram have an expanded sense of family. Descent and inheri.
tnncc are mainilinealthal Is,they follow the mother 's bloodline, Men.
when they marry, leave thcir own families and join their wife's family
through an adoption process that confers on them the same nights as actual
blood kin  More often than not.three and sometimes four generations of
Naraminhabita"family.town."
Afamilytownis the closesttrunslaticn forwhatthe Naram callthe
butldings/living qunters they inhabit One central building or apart-
menthurhan anthropologists have called it a hotch-scrves as the
general living quarters foreveryone in thefamily, Here they live and play
cnd cat Satellite buildings or aparuncntsdens n anthropological
rerms are alloted to adult individuals and couples for privacy and
slecping Theseare connected to the hutch dhrough hallways orenclosed
tunnclstpaths and seldom dothese denshavetheir own private entrinces
orexits.

--- PAGE 160 [OCR] ---
OGGGOG
GGGL
GGGG
In the couniryside this living arrangemenl produces a vast mansion
GOVERNMENT
with a dozen ormore outbuildings, cach of which may haveyet sinnller
buildings linked to them for now-adult children. In urhan seitings whole
Govemmnent among the Naram is an extension of the family system
apartment buildings become honeycombed with linked apartments and
Grand Elders are those individuals who have grandchildren living with
may.vary in ownership from floor.to floor. This linking of domiciles is
them, Elders are those who have children living with them. Each family
perhaps most uniquc in the fishing families that live out their lives in vast
selects one Grand Eider tosit on the local Grand Elder council and one
florillas of large and smal vessels. There the connections are more
Elder per 20 people in their familygroupto sit in the ElderAssembly.The
flexibleand consistof lines slung between ships orcomplex nelworks of
Plder Assembly,also kniown.as the Lower Chnmbcr,drufts and passes
ropes that make passing from one ship to another slighily less difhicult
Laws for the Grand Elder Council or Upper Chamber to talify or
than a trapcze act.
rejocl
Because the Narim cling to this sense of family so tightly, ahy
Cindidates for hieher offices must be Elders or Grand Elders, It is
Naram far from hls true fainily caneasily feeloutoftouch with the wordd
assumed that if their own family will notelect them to the local counci.
Narim families regularlyake tn strays"and adopt single Naram An
there is no reason they should be trusted on any higher level The people
adopted Naran.would then somchow notify his family of this new
dinectly elect leaders from the local to continental level Frotn there all
conncction, forming forthen an obligation to retum the favor toanother
offices are filled by the Elder Assembly and Grand Elder Council The
Naram from the family thal adopted him,ortoanother Naramn altogether.
Grand Naram Elder Courcil elects onc of its own to be First Consul and
A coniplex nerwork of debits and creditsexists within the Naran worids
that individual is recognized as the leader of the whole Naram people.
that few but the Narain understand.
This focus on the group produces other effects within the society.
PHILOSOPHY
The Naram conception of possession is radically different from that
common in Human society.Aside from a few very personal items.
The Naran desire toshare anid accept others as family foms the core
generally gifis or kecpsakes of particularly strong sentimental value.
of their philosophy and has bcen the key to their survival, However,pro.
everything seems to be communally owned. Whereas a Human might
TOGand anti-TOG familics each.seethe other as rejecting their offer to
count his blessings by chumerating everyithing he owns, a Naram would
jointogethcc, and righicous anger sceps in whcre Huimans mleht decide
tally thein by looking at how much he has shared with his family.and how
ta live with adifference of an opinion.
much they shanewith him This sharing atitode creales wihinthe Naram
The desire to avoid anotherrace-wide war has put a strange stamp on
adesire to make site cveryone s happy with a situation. For this reason
Naran Renegade Underground terrorism. Instcadofdestroying anenemy
the Naratn ire seen as more trustworthy than Humans and have proved
family,the Naramn makeovertandcovert signs tochasten that family.into
easier-going than the othernon-human mices.
This openness and giving nature extends to personal relationships
ccing the Tight.Whcn the nimor started that the First Consul was a TOG
Nanum do fall in love and mary, forging a strong alliance between their
agent, billions of anonymous cards signed with the Renegade R flooded
the capital postal systeim.
twofamilies.The Naram conception of fidelity.howevergets back tothe
This should not bc taken as a relictance or inability on the part ofithe
family concepl There is nothing wrong with one sister shanng her
Naram to wage war,because that is directly opposite to the truth While
husband with another sister or cousin,I brings pleasurc to ach partner
the Naram are not as given to individual or spectator violence as Human-
and, if there ts a child produced by the union, it is considered a gif to the
family,
itythey are ferociods combatants. Because they identify thcinselves so
The Naram equnte the length and condition of their hair with the
closcly with their family, and because thcy know what grief their.death
will cause, they fight hard, to avoid dying.
lengih andquality of their life.T has bcen suggested thal this isa holdover
Within the Naram there is one strong, quasi-religious movement
from a time when nuclear.weapons were used in one of their genocidal
known as the Mayan People, lis philosophy. stressesicooperation and
waurs Thc survivors,who lost their hair.markcd survival by how much
pacifism. While assailed in some circles as littie more than an excuse for
had grown back and how long it was by the tinie they dicd. The faci that
collaboration with the slavemasters, it has remained strong-It addresses
hair is also Very nutrition-dependentechoes this linking of hair with the
the Naran desire for unity and is occasionally credited with the survival
length and quality of life
of the Naram race. Some believers leave their families to join the larger
As a result of this philosophy,virtually do one bul warriors cut their
hair. For warriors,the ritual of cutring off their hair signifies a transiticn
Mayan People family. and Mayan mystics serve as the equivalcnl of
from child to warrior and an acknowledgement that life might not be very
chaplains within the anncd scrvices.
longor pleasant.Thc othertimeshair is shomn is in socialprotest.Ahunger
EVALUATION
striker,forexanple,will shear hishnir tosignify his willingness to dieto
iccomplish a change in whatever policy or eovemmental body he is
The Naram can be characterized as beautiful, easy-going humans.
protestingagainst
but shat would give shon shnfi to the true depth of theircommitmcnt to
family and their desire to share with the world Naram are the best of
Iriends and will fom their own "family"when surrounded by stringers.
When betrayed, however,ihey can bc as unpredictable and nasty as thcir
human counderpats

--- PAGE 161 [OCR] ---
GGGGGI
GGGOGUGOGGGGL
GGGGGGGGGGGGGG
SSORA
The Ssora are a curious race often categonzed as buffoos or
The Ssort's expansion eventualy brought then intoconflict with the
treachcrous villains,They are somewhat secretive about their.species
KcssRithThey ran across a KessRith generation ship orbiting a system.
histcry and do not toleratediscussion of persodial errors and embarrass-
It had long since downloaded its cargo and hnd been maintuincd by the
ments,They thrivewithin an orderedanddeteministic societythat forces
dominant clan as litle more than a gunncry platform. True to KessRith
thcm tocmploy.labyrinthinemeans loaccomplishtheirgoals.aslone as
philosophythe KessRith shot first,then putthe pieces of the Ssora vessel
it does not.take.thern outside thc bounds of socicty's rules.
back together.Thcir sclentists imanaged to reversc engincer thc T-Space
dnve and within a century (roughly 2589 by Terran reckoning) had a
BIOLOGY
spacegoing fleet capable.of T-Space lravel.
The KessRith would have pursued the Ssora and wiped them out in
Ssora are warm-hlooded, lizardlike creatures who average a meter
nother millennium,butran intoa moreworthyfoefirstHumanity.The
and ahlrin heightand 7okilosin wcight,While bipedal,thecy relyon their
Ssora made the best of this respitethey negotiated an allinnce of
prehensile tail for balance, The tail is interesting in that it ends in two
convenience with the KessRith and madea runat both the Human Raj Cas
fleshy pincers that can hold tools or deliver a nasty pinch. Their dry.
the Human holdings wcre then known and the Commonwealth
The Ssora interest in fighing secmed secondary to showing the
leatheryfleshbears allmanncrofstriations,dotsanddecorations,andcan
adjust coloration to the curient cnvironment Their hands and feet each
KessRith thar they were bolding up theirend of the alliance This was
have thrce digits.
imponanr becausc the Ssora had begun ro innliratc und libcrate some of
thc Ssora worids the KessRith had taken, Apparently the KessRith Clan
Ssora bond in pairs and'reimain together for life. Females are fertile
Leaders decided retuming these worlds were wonh Ssora help in the
ooce cvery twoyears and lay oneortwoleatheryeeesthatgrowand hatch
in six months Ssora children rcachmatunity alTo years ofage and are
alliance bccause they did not repudinte the treaty. However, when the
cared for by their parents until that timc. Their average life span is so
Suora pressed loo hard at sorme key systens, the KessRith did react and
years.withsome Ssoraeven reaching 120 underfavorablecircumstances.
sent the Ssora homc In tatters.
It is generally believed, by Ssora and human ecneticists, that the
Ssorh evolved from small predalors in an cnvironment very much akin to
Ssora learncd about Eanh. This coincldence has been put forward as yet
the Late Cretaceous penod on Eanh. Some humans have soggested the
miore evidence of the Terrun origin for the Ssoa. And whilethat mieht be
Ssora actually evolved cn Earth and left in massive generation ships for
cxplained away as coincidence.the Ssoru demand for Earth when it fell
the farside ofthe ealaxy.Asthey posit thai such a migration would have
afier the Snow Plaguc was very.deliberate. While the declurition loses
taken place 62 to 65 million ycars aeo all physical evidence has been
somcthing m the trunslation, the Divinity tas the Ssona leader is calledy
inforned the KessRith Grand Doninator that to refuse his request would
desrovedifitevorexistedStill.thesimilarityhctwccn Ssoraand Teran
mitochondrial RNA has spurked such n debate The Ssoru vehemiently
"tead to a war in which we will eat your hearts and leave thc rest of you
deny this thcory.
for the scavengers, TEditor's note Thc actual translation uses a Ssora
tem for "tender parts" where the author used the word "hearts."The
HISTORY
author apparently uscd an older, expurgated copy of "War Declarations
oftheSyora6300-6370.1
The eall of their demand struck the KessRith as brilliant within the
This debate over the Ssora's originwhether or not they evolved
tealm of malanra, so the demand was respcctfully honored, The Ssora
from Terran dinosaurs-is Tucled hy some confusion in the Ssora ac-
rejoiced at gaining this fine planct and renamed it Swuai-Birthplace.
counts of their own history.While they have no mchcry of a period of.
IEditor's NoteAgain,this translation is not whollyaccuratc.Swuiuli is
cxploration by ships lackine T-Space dnives, when they traveled lo a
more corrcctly rendered, a place suituble for ceg-laving.The uuthor
number of ncarby worids thcy locared traces.of what could have been
overlooks the fact that no fewer than seven other worlds within Ssora
Ssora civilizations. Many Naram have suggcested that perhaps the Sson
holdings bear that same amel The obvious qucstion beeged by this
iketheNaram.accomplishcdat leastooeinterplanetarymierationinthcir
rechristening is this: Why would the Ssora call Earth their birthplace if it
history.Revisionist humans clain generatton ships from Earth seeded
had not been the worid on which they had arisen?
that whole side of the galaxy.but onby onc of thecivilizatiorns survivedh)
Many experts feel the Ssora deny this theory so vehemently becausc
The idea thhi the Sson hnd a headstort on all the other sennentraces
of their current embaussmcnt over losing the world This cmbarrass-
tb it G2 million years or more modesty has followers becuuse of the
ment would alsoexplain why the Ssora did nothing to wam the KessRith
amoumt of time it took for the Ssora to claim theirarm of thc galaxy
about the Human uprising until too tate.Of course,an altemate cxplana-
Though records are unclear. it appears that the Ssora developed T-Space
tionthey didn' want to lose face in front of the KessRith because of the
drivesrabout 1oo.ooo BC Their resuliant spread proceeded at a pace not
uprising--also has some validity. TEditor's Note: In fact the Ssora
driven by the desire to explore, bu by the nced to find new worlds for an
Admiralon Teraat the timc literally died from anasthmaticattack over
expanding population.
his embarrassment, Without their lelader, and aecustomed to following
orders, the rest of the Ssora did exacily whut the rebels told them lo do.1

--- PAGE 162 [OCR] ---
GGGOG
The Ssora/KessRith conflict flared up anew becausc of Alexander
Trajan's activities,and theKessRithoncemone look the worlds the Ssora
had previousiy recaptured When'the Gommonwealth and Niram alsc
rewolied, the KessRith chose toignore the Ssora The Ssora realized very
quickly that ToG posed a greater threat to them than did the KessRith.
Most Ssora suppont for.the Rencgades is concentraied around Common-
Wealthworlds.
CULTURE
ThcSsora believein order in evervthing aind thismakes them seem
ruthless to many humanitarians.In issucs of law and ordcr,for cxunple.
adeviantmentallyincompelentornotiseivenaflatD-yearsentence
forany crimc.Tt is,inclfeci a chanceto redo his pnoeess of maturation.
If he commits the same or another crime after ihat to-vear period,he is
killed, If his crime was truly deviant like the smashing of eegs or
something equally horrid, his family might also be desroyed to prevent
defective geneticmatenal from being passed along
Thatsaid,Ssora sociely legitimizes agreatdealof behaviorthat most
other cultures consider less than cihical, Lying,chcating and manipulat-
ing are common practices umong the Ssoa and do not endear these
lizards to miostothcr scndient mices, Thc tick within Ssora society is to
arrange everything'so that what you desire is accomplished without your
having to makea direct move ht the arget:It is a gameiof guess and
double-guess that homfies even the most seasoncd Human politicians.
An example is-in order-If a Ssora wanted one of the jars of
macadanmia nuts you rcccived ina shipmcntfrom home.he wouldnotask
for it Were it within his powerhe would arange for someone to have you
posted to temporary duty in a place where you cannot take. such things.
When you offer the nuts to him bcause they arcn't going to do you any
good, he will refuse the gin, commiserate with you on your hid fate.
then offertocxchangc somcthing ofshighily lesscr walue than thetuts for
what you had previously offered free. Inthis wayit finally comes out that
hc'sdoing youa favor fortakingthenuts-oltyour handsleadingyou to
believe he never wanted them in the first plice.
Yes.the syslem isteriblyinefficlentwhich in partexplainswhy
took thc Ssora as long as il did Tor them io expand as far as they have.
Fortunately forthe Ssora species,thereare cuseswhcrethis twisicd logic
isn tapplied.ForexampleSsora raised in contactwithalienspeciestcnd
To be moredirect in stating thcirneeds and more reluctantto manipulate
others for their own ends, Exaggeration is.still a flaw in most Ssom
reponis, but cven that is reireating lo manageahle levels.
The second place whcre this double-dealingdoesn'tcnter is in what
the Ssora referio as a Cresiesr.soul bond,This s what they use to define
the relationship berween husband and wife parents and childrenand wo
frends Italsodefinesthe relationshin ofeach Ssora individual wh The
Divinity.and therein lies thcsecretof progress,The Divinity cun declare
a Slactesiesr, which fs a soul bonding iht cncompasses  group of
individoalsforthedirationofacertain profectOncofiheDivinity'smain
duties is lo.constanly nehewtheihousands of slaciesicsristhat-make
technological development and militury operulioos possible
Theciestewrisconsidered sosncced thatSsorararelyenterintothem
with anvone nof of their blood. Rescuing or bcing rescued by another
foms the basis of many of these cross-species Ctestesris.Only the
outright betrayal of a Ssora by a fricnd will eam a repudiation of a soul
bond And even then,itIs notunhcard of fora Ssorato continue lofulfill
169

--- PAGE 163 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGGGOGG
those oblieitions with the kin of someone who hns betrayed him,
right choice for you Why bog things down in ned tape when you krow
assuming the kin will bring their rogue back into line.
red tape will only anger the gods? Get things done by whatevcrmcars you
Thc obligalions of dhe Ciesiesr nre rather simples the two people
can, and thcnmove along todo someihing else Vacillation overdecisions
pledge.to do whatever they can to help the odhcr, up to and including
that are already predetenmined is sheer folly. (ln the eyes of the Ssora.
giving one's life for the other, The depth of the Ssora commitment is
Humanity is proof the gods hrve a sense of humor and a willingness to
evidenced by the fighier jock admonition that having a Sson wingman is
watch limebewasted)
better than two guardian angels and lickermate 4o shields.
The Ssora govermimert works in triples cr triples of triples (i.ei.
The Sson are able to exercise some subconsclours control over the
nincs). Mosi cities elect rine City Councilors and three County Council-
color Variations in thcir flesh In plinicular,their colar scheine and
ors, The County Councilors clectmine State Councllors and thee Conti.
palieming changetoreflecinew status andrewresponsibilities.Counting
nental Councilors The Continental Councilors clect nine Distnct Coun-
the stripeson a female Ssora's abdomen reveals,in theocy.the numberof
cilors and threc Seclor Councilors. The Sector Councilors elect ninc
eges she has laid Cerntain other patterms incicate family and ccononic
Division Councilors and three Supreme Councilors The Suprene Coun
status, and minor changes in them reflect almost daily adjustments in
cilor's elect the Divinity, but they are given so narrow.a choice of
current situations. These differences are all but invisible to alien species,
candidales for that post that thcy really only ratify what the otacles report
butother Ssora read them'clearly.
is the wilt of the gods.
Because somnc children haich with intricate pattems on thcitr flesh
the Ssora have developeda belief in reincarnation, While the family may
PHILOSOPHY
take pride in the fact tht their ncw infant apparenily was a banker with
four children and homes on two wodds,it is considered in poor taste to
The Ssora, because they have rejected the concept of free will,have
locatethefamilv and suggest wealthshould be shhred to insuitethe child's
nct developed much in the way of philosophy.They believe in honoring
proper upbringing The Ssora do not belicve in free will, because they see
the Ciesiesr asbestthcycan and,otherthan that,they seektodowhatever
it as the progenitor of entropy and chaos,They argue that no matter what
they can to get what they want.After all,falling for a plan laid'out by a
you think you could have done,your perception ofchoice was an illusion
Ssora is part of the will of the gods.The Ssora do know they are blessed
and your life would have bcen livcd this way regardlesscvenything you
by the gods because they had T-Space travel firsl.They also know they re
are forces you to make the choices you make.
beautiful, unlike the other species,which is yet again more proota)
GOVERNMENT
EVALUATION
The Ssoruthcocracyworksin whatappears to be an ulledy confusing
Unless you're soul bonded to a Ssora, tnust him as far as you can
munncra Membels of an oracular telleious sect make pronouncencnts
throw.twoKescRith
about what thc gods have decimed nccessary in a leader e.g,We nced
a Ssora widh four Life Traumaspots on his Chcst in a diomond pattem.
Qunlifiedcnndidates who are interested in the office put their name
forwardand the people votefor onc by selecting a ballotwith his name on
lt and giving it to the Registrar of voting.
Because of the Ssora detemministie bent however,the election does
notend thene.These ballots, oficn in the form of a ball, are dumped into
a hopper and mixed The winner is then selected by chance (predetemili-
nation? from the ava lableballols.Obviously.a popular candidate hasa
greaterchanceof winning,but this final step of lcaving the sclection in the
hands ofthe gods means thal the goveming bodies do not have as much
deadwood as Is found in.morc conventional democracies.
Obviously the system is open to Incredible fraud.The oracles can be
vulncrable lobribery or cocrcion, Theballot selection could be fixed.The
Ssoraacceptthis,bowever as thewillofthc gods.Thcy assume ifthe cods
havenotmeant forsomeonewhoabused the system likethis toreign,they
willalrcady havedetcnnined that hewilldle shortlya Mostoftentheabuse
of the system actually tnkes place on thc pant of the oracles,who can
osely definethe announced qualificalions to fitthe indnvidual they want
to huaveihejob.
Electlon and votes onall govcrnnental mallers followthispaltem
Yes and nochitsare put into a hopper whn a piece of lcgislation is being
considercdFrom thesc voles, the Final decision Is pickcd al randon.
Jurles in criminal cases are polled in a similar fashiont
While this scems ullerly counter to the Ssora love of order, it Works
to make the system flow nore evenly and smoothly.What is theneed for
lengihy discussion ofa law.when you know tdiat thc gods will make the

--- PAGE 164 [OCR] ---
GGGOL
IGGGGGGOOOGOOOGGG
VAUVUSAR
These ambassidors and envoys from the Magellenic Republic,
clearty vicw the associational timc spent between infertile female and
while they have not been in contact with Mankind for long, huve played
brood mother as a period of discovery.If thefemale is a good mother Cher
apivotalrolein Humanhistory.Theyanivedorat leastmadethemsclves
duties incude caring for the brood mother's last batch of children), the
known,in 499o.Theywitnessedthedesiruction ofmankindbythe Snow
chanee Is allowed to occur If not, she is discharged and anoher is taken
Plague, and then assisted his rise from slavery. Always friendly and
in.
courteous,the Yauvusnr are incredibly."modesty-in discussng them.
Partners for miating are chosen by the prospective brood mother.and
selves and thelr background There is much more to these aliens than
choices are apparently madc on  highly subjective basis. The brood
meeisthecye.
mother produces up to ioo eggs at a time and they arc fertilized ina
brceding pond by one or more males.Survival rate isapproximately So%.
BIOLOGY
Fully 80% ofthe offspring will beofone sex,20% of theoher,depending
upon the ambient icmpeniture of the breeding pond Selection for sex is
stnictly forbidden, though it happens from time to time, especially when
The Yauvusar are tall. largc-skulled cieatures who have the willowy
more male wariors are needed Siblings are those from same binhing
build one would expect in a creature that cvolved in an aqualic cnvinoi-
pond,rcgardless of actual parentage,and sibling bonds are not nearly as
mcnt Their eyes are seton cither side of their bulbous head,yet provided
impontant to the Vauvusar as they arc to other species.
overlapping fields of sight to give them depth perception.Bipedal,their
Curiously, the Vauvusar disassociate brecding from love As breed-
whiplike tail is a reminder of thcir carly development as an aquatic
ing does not require physical contaci between partners, ft has become
predatoc, it still can propel them through water or deliver a nasty swat in
almosta pragmatic matier,The brood mother, it is expected, willchoose
a fght,tis not prehensile
the bes Fathertsy for her children she can find Being n love with one
The Vauvusar's physical developmcnt has provided them with some
individual and fenihzing the eegs of another is not considered Infidelity
physiological anomalies that are importunt to note, The large head is liutie
butrathersurvivalof thefiitest Infact.Fidelityisnot a word the Vauvusar
but mouth, nostnls, cycs and ears. Each of thesc connecis to sensory
havcinaheirvocabulary
inputs which lead through the back.of the skull to the brain which
Nooneis certain of the Vauvusar lifespan,butitscmsto be roughly
occupies aplace insidc the Vauvusar ribcage justabove and on eitherside
doublethat of a normnl Human, about 2o0 years.
of the Vauvusar's 6-chambered heart
The Vauvusar slared as omnivorous creaturesthough many are
HISTORY
now simply Vegetarnans-cating foaling plants and animals, Their Nat
head presented lintle profile to alert prospective meals.When a Vauvusar
finally floated into position,it dropped its massivelower jaw and created
The Vauvusar have been very private about their history. They
an incredible suction that liicrally pulled the waiting mcal inlo its maw.
occasionally confim cr deny specific thcories, but this only happens
By squeezing itspowerful cheek muscles,itexpelled the waterina stream
within the scientific commnunity.Forexample,the Vauvusarwercpleascd
and crushed the meal before it slid down its gullet.
to exchange information on cvolution with Humans, but they have
This stream of water also bccamc a useful defensive lool for usc
politely ignored requests for fomat histories of the Vauvusar people.
against wingedcreatunes.Any avian stooping on a Vauvusar could at besl
We do Cnow tha the Vauvusar overcame another nearly senicnt
threatcn an eye while the Vaurvusar could knock it out of the air with a
creature in their distant historya The Vauvtsuir have a dislike of the
directed stream of water Becausc Vauvusar still have that ability, it is
KessRith that closelyapproximaltes the Human revulsion for spidrs and
wise notto anger one or make him haugh too hard when he has a mouthful
snakes The few facts and rumors that have surfaced sugeest that a
of any liquid.
centaur-like race cither arose on DurVauHhdir hoineworld or at-
The Vauyusar have four arns and two legs Thciranns are not suited
fempted toconquer itfromspice,TheVauvusarsuccessfullydefealed the
to heavy lifing Even so, hese armns are capable of quick movemcnt in
centaurs, but al a cost still apparent loday.
water.which makes them quicker yet in air.Their legs are much stronger
Therc also has bcen, in Vauvusar history,a certain amount of racial
than their amms, but still unremarkable, Each limb ends in a triplc-digit
sturite.The Vauvusar come in two colors dun with greenstriping and blue
appendage. she hands having small but opposable thumbs
with yellow striping While cither Vauvusar face are cordialenough to
The Vuvusar huve two sexes more or less.No cne is duite certain
alins.thcre is somietcnsion betwccn thelwo groups.Thedunsappcar to
when they rench sexual maturity,but females remain infertile until they
bedeferentiul to the blues, but no good explanalion has bccn offered for
are chosen to become brood mothersAn older brood mother takes a
thiisbehauior.
femalein who, afier amn amountof timcthattheVauvusar leave unspeci-
AsnotedabovetheVauvusar firstcametoHumuin attention in4996.
Gied bccomcs a brood mother herself Xenobiologists suggest this truns-
They introduced themselves on several worlds,noting they were ambas-
fomation occurs becausc pheromones fron the brood mother tnigger the
sadors from the Magellenic Republic over 15o.ooo lightyears away) o
changesintheinfertilefemale,andthey suspcctthetransfomnation could
the Huinan Ray Theyshowed nothing but peaceful intentand secined d
be chemically induccd The Vauvusar offer no comiment on this and
take no umbrage al being quarantined or eyen tested before they were

--- PAGE 165 [OCR] ---
allowed contact witb the gencral populace When they were finally
allowed to travel among the pepple,the Vauvusar were something of
celebriticsand got.widccinculaiion
Ti is often thcughtto be more than coincidence that the Snow Plaguc
hitthe worlds visited by the Vauvusarthe hardest Thepossibdity that the
Inggcr vinus was of Vauvusar origin has not been discounted because.on
its own, it is an innocuous virus Itis notcatalogued among those isolaled
in the first visits by the Vauvusar, but it could have been brought in by
subscqucntanbassadorsor.morcimportantly.could havebecn clirriedby
ambassadors who had seen duty among the KessRith It is believed
cnvoys did visit the KessRith.Clun Lcader Z'tac Quoga and studied his
work in viral genetics, but it is unlikely they recognized whatsort of threal
hisworkposedtoHumnnity.tAfterallhowmanydiplomatshavedegrees
in Applied or.Theoretical Genetic science?)
What Is known for certain about the Vauvusar and the Snow Plague
was their tireless work in helping the sick. Because the vinus could not
affect them, many of the Vauvusar ambassadors worked within thc
quarantined hovels containing the sick, While some people merely
thought them ghouts sccking io assuage their cuniosity concening
Humanity ard death,those who survived because of Vuuvusar ministra
tions sang their praises (This residual good feeling Is one of the factors
in the ToG tolerance of the Vauvusar.)
As the KessRith and Ssora aived to tuke over the HumtanyNaramy
Commonwealth holdings, the Vauvusar siepped in to fill the role of go-
between. They negotiated the retreat of some military forces and occa-
sionlly used broad diplomatic powers to evacuote people the KessRith
and Ssora were hunting. CThey accepted these fugitives'"credentials"as
ambassadors to the Magellenic Republic, though they never took any of
then to the Republicitsell.)
During the millennia of darkness and slavery, the Vauvusar man-
aged tokeep someof humanity'sculture aliveby archiving it and buying
slaves-to study and perform works for.them, These Vauvusar slave
plantations laterbecameculturul and educitionadl centers once the worlds
were liberated. Aside fron their incessant questions of why and how
pcople did what they did, the Vauvusar evidenced no other reason for
these acts of kindness.
Eventually thc Vauvusar began to boy old, obsolete weapons from
the Ssoru They hinied at a war back in the Magelienic Republic and said
they were using the weapons to arm insurgents, The Ssora, amazingly
guileless in this instancc,sold them milions of iscemingly tiseless Dice-
sium-Telluriuh lasers. The Vauvusar smuggled them to Alexander
Trajan and the rest is history.Trajan later used the Vauvusar as couriers
to get material to various human outposis,and the Baufrin used Vauvusar
as couriers when ncgotiating the Commonwealth/KessRith trcaty
Many have speculated as to the reasons behind the Vauvusar
assistance to the Human resistance TOG oficinls clnim it was because
the Vauvusar realized that Humanity ls the only race with the vitality
needed todevelopthegalaxytoitsfullest.Sone putitdown totheir hatred
ofthe KessRith or their desireto alone for having bcen used iodeliverthe
Snow Plague s trigger inus Still others have suggested it was merely an
experimentdesignedtoanswerabig"Whatir question.And sone have
even asked if thcyarmed Humanity bccause they feel Humans are the
Milky Way species most vulnerable to conquest from the Magellenic
Repiblic.
Since the developmnent of TOG and the revolt of the Renegade
Legions,the Vauvusar have been placedin a curious position. Theyhave
military unirs wihin the Commonwealth Armed Forccs which cngage

--- PAGE 166 [OCR] ---
AGGGGGGGGGOGGGGGG
TOG units on an infrequent basis, The Vauvusar claimed, at first, these
wealih, Methods of ingquiry vary among the Vauvusar.but they gencrally
were observer units who merely retumcd fire when fired upon, but thal
reinain quiet, staring intensely at whatever is happening or who is doing
explanution grew old veryquickly.TheVauvusar.in TOG territory claim
it, tintil they ane tnvited to guestion something, Ai that pormt a veritable
those units are renegades from the Magellanic Republic,though that is not
torent of qucstions spills fonth While this sort of bndgcring can bc
what the Vauvusar assiened to the Commonwenlih cr its allied nations
nnoying police forces have found Vauvusar very eftective as ineroga-
call them,TOG.has lived with this explanation if forno otherreason than
tion specialists:
the Vauvusar-units are not wonh worrying about when compared to
KessRith Heavy Cavalry,
GOVERNMENT
CULTURE
Asnearly as can bedeterminedthe ohly cnesallowed to votewithin
the Magllenic Republiearebrood mothcrs. Theyare the family ssource
TheVauvusartracedescent malernally astheidentity ofafathercan
of wisdom, and are assumed to have the bcst interests of their family al
seciously be guesbioned in almost any cise. A fumily unit gencradly
hear Brood mothers fom Councils from the local level throogh, pre-
consists of a bruod mother her helper and the children The lovers of
sumablythe Rcpublic level The First Mother is the nominal'ruler ofall
either the brood mother or helper may also share living quaners, but they
butshe appearsto chair a galactic council of Mothers.
have no obiearion to the children even ifthey are biologically relatcd to
them. Still,male or female partners of theparentsdowilingly contrib-
PHLOSOPHY
ule to the upkeep ofthe household and may.in fact,be their sole support.
Other support comes. from contributions by the juvenile and grown
The Vauvusar have. from a humanocentric point of view,a very
offspring.ofthe brood mother
confused philosophy.The uncouplint of love and reproduction hnsmade
Sexuality among the Vauvusar is decidedly confused from a Human
them mhuch Treer and hcdonistie than other sentient races.Their intense
standpountrRepoducticn.Is utierdy separated from loveWhal is left in
curiositymakesthcn voraciousconsumcrsofinfonmaticn.butthcynever
tems of lovernaking.is whatthcVauvusair callouloukuorshared
seem to stop long enough to digest and consider what they have leamed.
joyAs such it is an activity the Vauvusar greatly valuc and engagc in
or what its possible effect on them mighr be Even the times they join
whenever the opportunity pnesents itself.
combat gainst TO seems by whim rather than design, They tend to
Having disengaged love fromn reproduction,it would sccmi that the
operate as if life is an expcriment and they arc solely observers.
Vatvusar have no place for tove. but this is not true Love, for the
It isvirtually Imposstbletomakea Vauvusarangry. Becauseoftheir
Vauvusar.involves an emorional bonding between lwo individudls who
curiositytheyoften miss the intent'ofinsults and slurs while thcy study
vow to shuurc their innennost thoughts and wishes with each otherlt
the language nd gestures used to pot them down, Once they finally
becomes.forthe Vauvusar,aspiritual bonding and is sundered only in the
realize what is happening,they classify the brutalizer as an enemy,and
case of insanity or death, Even then, the surviving partner might refrain
mayeventank him as insane, From eithcr thcre is no real retum,though
from bonding with another out of respect for the first bond.
the Vauvusar are pmgmatic enough to form alliances of convenience to
Love,in the Vauvusar,his sucha strong Intellecrunlelenent thatit
get out ofa jaim.
breaks down intomany differentclasses.Whilea Vauvusar will have only
However jans cccurrarely the Vauvusar seem tohavea sixth sense
one Soullove,there can be muny individuats whoarelovedand retun love
about trouble. Their ability to avoid ambushes and traps is legendary
on a less intensc level In human terms they might he classified by the
among other species, l is sometimes assumed to be a psychic ability,but
following progression, enemy.acquaintance,buddy, friend,teammate.
mostrational individualsatnbuteittosubconscioustriggersbasedon thc
gocod friend, best friend and lover. Enemy is included here because the
Vauvusar's many experiences. It ls, in short ds if their brain has an
Vauvusarseeitastheunerabsenceof love between twoindividuals and
autopilot that stecrs them clear of trouble, Only when enlering a totally
thnt forms a very tragic bond in Vauvusar iterature and culures:
ncw situation will a Vauvusar.find troubleif he's not spccifically looking
Again,fidelity does not apply because.to the Vauvusar,to bctray
forit!
somconcthey loveto any exient-is to betruy part of themselves.This.
is insanity,and insanity isa state which breaks adl bonds anyway. The
EVALUATION
Vauvusar can no more think of fidelity or infidelity than we can think of
poisoning haifbut just halo ofour body-(Self-diagnosis of insarity is the
The most troublesome thing atbout these very guiet and fncndly
lcoding causeof Yauvusar suicide.)
aliens isthal ng one has any better idea ofwhydhey havebcen scnt tovisit
As noled above,cnemles for a strong Tragic theme in Vauvusar
the galaxy than we did whcn they first showed up. That they have been
culnureMost of thetalesrevolve aroond rwo individuals who,tecause
helpful and friendly to mankind cannot be denied That they seem
theyhatceachother.failtorcachwhatwasacommongoal.Mostcommon
peaceful and benign is not in question. What they want is still, however.
is theKey and Chairsiory in which two children wunt to get food from
unknownand that makes somcpcople uneasy.
a locked cabiner localed hieh on wall.They hute ench other so the one
That notwithstanding,the Vauvusar are very good alliestocultivate.
Who is strone cnough to push a chair bcncath thc cabinet refuses to do so.
Thcy study and leam everything and they can recall virtually all of what
Theotheronerefusesto give upthe key,Bothofthem realize,tcolate that
they leam.Fncndly and diplomatic,they can iiso.simooth overperson-
they have starved and are now too wcak lo work together, cven if they
ality conflicts when needed Because thcy are on fnendly tenms with
winied to, They die,cach blaming the other for his own death
cveryone.the presenceofa Vauvusarmeansmostfolks will ask questions
The most eatreme trait of the Vauvusar ts their insatiable cunosity.
(aranswerthcm) beforeshooting,andthatmakcs thingsmuch hcalihicr
"Curiosity killed the Vauvusaris a saying heard often in thc Comnon-
forevervone.

--- PAGE 167 [OCR] ---
OGGGG
ZOG
The Zog are a highlyimitativerace discovered byTOGacenturyago
changes into something more Tike his true self, The vast majority of Zog
on a small, backwater planet Over that ioo years the Zog have been
come outof it in threemonths with nothing morethananewskin and some
slowly integrated into TOG socicly ona very limited basis.Becauseofthe
metaphysicai insights. Leeends suggest that others, from the saints
Zog s unique biological and social tendencics, TCG officials are uncer-
among the Zog presumably,become tall,goiden-skinncd human-look-
tain f their policy of Diaspora would really serve a purpose in this case.
ing immortals with magical powcrs, thal go to live within the planet's
The Zog, is far.as.they are concemed, are the perfect slave race. The
hollow core Finally the truty evil transfonm into nightmansh creatures
Cornmonwealth considers them victims.
that stalk che darkness, stealing bad children to eat them.
Editor's Note: As usual the author quotes s fact stories that are
BIOLOGY
liutle more than faery tales or the latest crackpot thcory.These golden
immonals have not been located, though seismic dala does indicate the
planet is niddled with sublerranean cavem networks, The nightmare
creatures are more real, but curtent scienrijic thinking classes them as a
consisting ofonedominant male,scveral subordinate males,a numberof
predator native to the Zog homeworld.]
females and all of theirinfnnt and juvenile offspning.Thcir organization
Zog undergothree moltings in their lifetimc. If they have not become
has beea closcly compared lothl of.Terran chimpanzces,as has their
immonal by then, thcy die.of old aee at about 95 standard years.
physiology. Except for the paiches of lizardlike fesh on the face.
foreams,hands and lower legs,the Zog are covered with a thick fur that
HISTORY
makes. them easily mistakable.for largc.chimps,Likc chimps, their
strength is outof propotion to their small size,and cheirtriple-digit hands
and feet can be used for grasping On ihe average, they stind 120
The Zog come from a harsh,dry planetcharacienized by broken lava
centimeters tall and weigh 7o kilos.
plains and intense sunlieht, The TOG scicntists who came to survey the
Theirfur varies from whiteand duntoblack.The Zog makcnoracial
Worid did mcstofit fromn orbit.Tn factunuilthey finally senta smallieam
distincions on thc basis offur color.butthe color of their nlesh ls anothet
down to the surface they had no idea that the planet was inhabited, When
thing entirely. Flesh runs from a bright red. purple or grcen to n bnilliand
they met the Zog. they were fairly ccnain thcy weren't senticnt.
gold with black flecks. This lalter patem, which emcrges.ony after at
The Zog band the scientists studied had been specially selected by
least one mol is vicwcd as a sien of divine favor and these individuals
the cave-dwelling natives to study thealiens.The Zog had been impressed
are lrealed with great deference.
by the appearance of the humansbeing so close to the Immortals in
Zog females have an abdominal pouch into which theiroffspring arc
physiology-but they were put off by the power of TOG weapons used
bomn. Pregnancy lasts for 7 siandnrd months, followed by another 12
in aimless target practice.The Zog scouting pany acted completely and
months in the pouch.
ulterdly primitive, and the TOG were taken in entirely.
The doininant male Zog technically hasthe rightto mate with any of
The anthropology team were entertained by the Zog and marveled at
the women in his band, with thc cxcepiion'of his sisters and daughters.
how the Zog stole linle bits and pieces oficchnological equipmentand sel
These are given over to his subordinates in appreciation for their loyalty
up a crude imitation of the TOG camp. The whole human party began
or as a bribe to prevent a dominance batle.With sentience, female Zog
slipping thc Zog equipment and castoffs which the Zog treated like
have riscn above the status ofchattel, but this has not climinated thc
treasure from the gods, By the lime the survey crew packed up and left.
sharing of favors with males in the band.
the Zog hadamassedquitea bitofequipment,including a P-Commdevice
Zog reach maturity by the age of lo, though they generally are not
and several obsolete expert sysiems on industry and electronics.
allowed to mate until a male reachcs 20 ycars and a female is at least 15
It is believed that the Zog were pre-indusirial before the TOG
years of age. At about the tge of 3o,Zog enter a molting phasc of which
incursion, but fifty years after the initial survey panty depaned, a second
Tule is understood Tt is believed to be very painful and arduous, Zog.
party discovered seilements with a technological level equivalent, in
generally wander off to undergo this process in private, and most are
certain places, to 23rd-century Earth.Whcn asked how they were able to
reluctant to speak of it in any great detail.
Understand all of the egulpment, the Zog said the lmmortals had helped
Even so, some things have bcen leamed It appears that a Zog
them, Since then,however,most haye come lo believe that a bit ofnative
tundergoing this process loses all its hair. In the monihs before the process
intelligence conbined with an incredible imitative tendency produced
the Zog develops an incredible appetite and eats virtually everything in
this ovemnight elevation of the Zog
sight. The Zog 's metabolism shifis down into starvation mode-becom-
Most TOG atlases list the Zog homeworldas Zoga-taking the nane
ing incredibly efficient-so all the food eatcn is converted into fat. Tis
the second survey group was given by thc nitives.In fact the world is still
lesch stiffers into a chitnous cocoon within which the Zog lives, surviv-
known among the Zog as Zeztra, and they call themselvcs thc Zezani.To
ing offthe stored fal,forup to three anonths.
honor and win acccptance from ToG however,the Zezun declared their
The Zog refer to the process as Erarcha, which has been translated
world the Zezinu Overlord Govcminont and have taken to calling them-
selves Zog.
as "Soulwar" During this chrysalis penod the Zog believe an individual

--- PAGE 168 [OCR] ---
NGGGI
Zoga has been used as a training sile for TOG grav tank operations
because of the open eapanses of fealureless plainsThe yaunted Hiubln-
gers of Death (Rasulta Legion 13379), anong others, have actualy
recruited and acccpied a Zog mal as a member oftheir unit.From all
reports, though the Zog are not a particulary bellicose species, thcy
function well enouchincombal
CULTURE
The Zog live in bands that consist ofa dominant male, his subordi.
natemales females uvenilesand infants.A maleis bonded with his band
far lifeTo bctray.this trust isthe eneulestsin a Zoecan comnit.A traitor
to a band, when caught, is forced to kill and consume his own offspring.
This Induces a moh Incldent and leeend has ir such an individual
becomesa monsler.
Dominnce in the band is decided through "combat. though the
contest itselfis undentalen on whatever grounds the current dominant
mnle wishes to name Once a mentally adept Zog becomcs the dominani
mnle,all hischalleneerswill havetomcethim inatestofwits,Adefeated
challenger can either remain subordinate or,in less freuent cases,can
split off and fomm his own band This latter course takes some time but,
in gathering females and other males, it insures good genetic mixing
When adomninantmale ts injuned orill and decides lo relinguish his
rule overthe band,or undergoing nmolrIn which casehe mustrelingulsh
control he decides the nature of the contest to be waged to replace him.
Iiis casy foradoiinantmale to insure.im this manner.that his choice for
an heir are respccted, though it is possible for his hand picked replace.
mentto losc the conlest
Females wcre once considered the propcrty of the band, but sen-
tiencehasmodihedthisview.hedominantmalestillmaintainsaharem
of five or morefemles,andihesubordinales haveanywhere from onc to
four molesThc dominant male no longer can transfer one female to
another male on a permanent basis, but he can demand she submit to
another male This submission involves a ratherelaborate ritual that only
nrely results in actual sexual consummation. The purpose of the action
Istopunish thc male with whom the femaleis aitached,and theembaass.
ment is profound and very real.
Inheriincc is figured along patemal lines, Males stay with thc
family band and females ane brought in from other bands, forming
allilnceswiththcm.
In gencral,the Zog area very relaxed race.Often this lack ofreaction.
cspecially to insults, is taken as a sign of dimwinedness, but no one who
has spent much time around the Zog consider them stupid, Actually the
opposile is true: those who know them consider them smarter than they
are given credir for. Some wonder what the Zog are up to in passively
submitting to TOG.
The Zog take verbal abuse from xenophobic Togglies very easily
which tends to enrage many of their tormentors. Most Zog note "Words
ire wind with Weak thunderand less force than a spring brcczeZog ted
to treul their huinan friends us members of a loosely defined band,and
accord them the loyaliy thar comes with thai clnssification Those who
befriend a Zog find him always ready lo help, cven arisk to himself.
Those who eum the ire of a Zog (a difficulr thing to do, but then Humans
can be very persistant) find themselves withan indifferent leam member
who would sooner kill himself than lift a finger to help a bigot

--- PAGE 169 [OCR] ---
GOVERNMENT
The Zog govermmnerit Is decidedly bizarre, from what little can be
determined Fnmily units forn the basics, with the dominant male being
the key individual. Apparently, dominant males are organized into local
andcontincntl Codncils,buttheyneverscetn tatravelunywheretohavc
mcetines nstead.thc Zogclaimthcdooinntmales cooductbusiness in
their sleep.These gatherines are oreanized and chaired by the Immortals
ToG scientists still hive noc been ableto test dominant malcs for
latent psychic abilities, but they have not been able to discount that
possibility. Telepathic communication would explain how thesc prc.
industrial people were able to sicp into the atomic age in fifiy years.
especially ifthe mmortals provided guidanoe and technicial assistance.
[Editor's Noles To repeatno eviderice for Immortal existence,much
less involvement ta technological developimenit,has comeforward, Evt.
dcnce of telepathic capabalities amcng thc Zog Is just as clusive.l
PHOSOPHY
Senper Fidelis seems to be the waichword of the Zog.For eximple.
they view the Rencgade Legions as apostate To betray one's band, no
mstier how Large, is anathema to the Zog-Had General Constantin
retumed to Earth and challenged Ivaolo Buntari for dominance, the Zog
would have tunderstood and respccted him.J The Zog cay this faithful-
ness to an extneme.vowing to do all thcy can to destroy those who have
slaintheircomrades.
Beyond thar thc Zog scem.devotod to learning and to avoiding all
unnecessary connlicts. Every Zog believes-that survival or clevuion
within moling depends upon howmueh anger and resentmcnihe harbors
in his souly Knowledge and fnendship hfe the counters to anger and
destructivetendencies,Only by having an overabimdanccofthe good can
a Zog hopeto become an Immortal, Avoiding needless fights, then, is the
key to salvation
Curiously the Zog have no theology, They see the Immonals as their
final greatest stateof beingTheyknowthey canaltain heaven-in-body
so they don't worry.ahout deities When asked,lf you don'r believe in
Ged.,who crealed you?"the Zog reply,"Does it maiter? tf you are right
inall you say aboutyour God, He will welcoinc neto Him nomattcrwhat.
If He did not, He would not be all loving and omnipotent as you say He
is. If Iamnght I promise Iwill remember vou when I hive becone an
ImumortalSeewebothwin.
EVALUATION
The Zog are an intelligent race that seem to be quickly coming up to
speed with the rest of the galaxy. They are very good friends and very
capnble'enemies Whit role they wil play im the continuing suga or 'TOG
depcnds upon the ultimate govermment disposition of their species For n
species thut still clings to superstitions, thcy scem. to understand the
modem world well,so whatever TOG decides to do with ahem muy not
gounopposed

--- PAGE 170 [OCR] ---
SOOGOGGOGGGOGGGGGG
BAUFRIN
This Baufrin has nof yet undergone its first molting,as evidenced by the lack of any blue coloration on its exoskeleton.The
lack of clothing is not uncommon. Exceptfor functional equipment such as space suits, amor, tool belts and the like.most
Baufrin refrain from wearing apparel ofany kind. In the military,badges of rank are wom as a courtesy to other alien species.

--- PAGE 171 [OCR] ---
OOGOGOGGGGGGGGGGL
GGGGGGGOOGGOGOOG
HUMAN
This Human member of a CAF Special Forces Regiment is equipped for extended insurgency operations.His equipment is
light,simple and easy to maintain. Wearing a combat jump suit made of Shock Sheet, the trooper also wears a Holotarp as
a poncho. He is equipped with a Nitronic Model SF Stug Rifle. This Nitronic differs from the standard Model Iin that it is
equipped with an independent targeting sight and has an extended power reserve in the stock of the weapon.

--- PAGE 172 [OCR] ---
GGOGG
KESSRHTH
This KessRith Dominator is just entering advanced age, as indicated by the greenish coloration of his skin. He is wearing
focmal armor used for the physical combat portion of a Domination battle, or Mala Ku Tora. The lack of scars on his body
indicates that this Dominator is an extremely dangerous opponent and will more than likely hold on to his position.

--- PAGE 173 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGG
MENELVAGOREAN
This Menelvagorean wears the formal garb of the Philosopher caste, The brown tunic indicates that this Philosopher
specializes in Warrior Law. The two black bars indicate that he has been able to get two Warrior Laws repealed.

--- PAGE 174 [OCR] ---
GGOGOGGGGGGGOOGGG
NARAM
This Naram male is a fighter pilot in the armed forces of the Naram Republic. Normally he would wear his flight suit over
the siniple undergarment seen here. The length of his hair is an interesting point, Nomally Naram warriors wear their hair
short to indicate that they expect to die soon, This warrior's hair is almost waist-length. This is probably a silent political
protest over the "'neutering" of the Naram Republic's military as a result of the Treaty of Peace and Fnendship with TOG.

--- PAGE 175 [OCR] ---
OOOOOOOGGGGGGGGO
SSORA
This Ssora wears the garb of the Swatala religious order. This order tmakes the necessary pronouncements for leadership
qualifications.The yellow coloration of his face and neck reflecthis status and hishigh level of responsibly in the community

--- PAGE 176 [OCR] ---
OGGGOOGOGGGOGGOGGL
SGGGGGGGGGGGGOOGG
VAUVUSAR
This Vauvusar Ambassador is dressed for a fonmal occasion on a TOG planet, as indicated by the toga thrown over his night
shoulder.,Underneath,the Vauvusar wears a combination jacket and loin cloth.The pattems on clothing indicates the birthing
pool inwhichthis.alienwas.borm.

--- PAGE 177 [OCR] ---
OOOGOOGGGGGGOGGGG
SGGGGGGGOOGGOOGGGG
ZOG
This Zog is wearing a TOG Naval Steward's uniform,This unifonn is functionallythe same as a standard Naval Fleet Combat
Suit,except that it has been embellished so that the crewmember will fit in with the decor of the fomal officer's mess where
all meals are served aboard large ToG warships.A helmet fits onto the collar, allowing the suit to be sealed in an emergency.

--- PAGE 178 [OCR] ---
CHARACTERRECORD
Name
Allegiance
Career Path
Attributes
Species
Armor
AG
Age
AF (Type)
Wounds
CH
Sex
Head
CN
Hair
Upper Torso
DX
Eyes
Lower Torso
IQ
Height
LK
Arms
Mass
SP
Legs
ST
Other
Prestige
Edge
APS
Prestige used
Edge used
Talents
APs for Prestige
Fame
Skills
SDS
Weapons
Level
Name
Rolls Weapon
Damage O/D Mods Range Mods Shots Power
FarpMn Midi
Aimed HitLocation Table
Power
Provisions (and Location)
Rating
Dsage
Roll
Effect
Head (triple damage)
34
Upper Torso (doubledamage)
56
Upper left limb(s)
7-8
Lower left limb(s)
9-13
Lower torso
14-15
Lower right limb(s)
16-17
Upperrighr limb(s)
18-19
Upper torso (doubledamage)
20
Head (tiple damage)
Power Record

--- PAGE 179 [OCR] ---
SPACECRAFTRECORDSHEET
Type
L.Structure:
Weap.Comps.
Sensors:
Life Support:
10.
Weapons:
FTL Systems:
3.Shields:
Evens
Engines:
Armor:
Odds
Crew.
 Pilot
2Navightor
3 SLDEne.
4I FTL Eng.
SOT
Sy Gunner
DX+Gunnery
S Gunner
Dx + Gunnery
Sy Gunner
DX + Gunnery
GROUND VEH
ICLE RECORD SHEET
Type
Strueture:
Engines:
Armor:
6.
Pilotr:
2..Comm./lnfantry:
AG+Piloting
ICommander
Weap.Comps...
DX +Gunnry
8.
Sensors:
2 Infantry
3yafantry
Gunner.
AG+ Piloing
Sy Infantry
T0. Weapons:
6 Infantry
7Infantry
S1Infanty
9Infantry
Shields:

--- PAGE 180 [OCR] ---
7GGGGGOGGGGOGOOG
AGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
GLOSSARY
Not everything in the Renegade Legion tiniverse can be purchased
HEAPorHHRound
orcheckedour Somnethings canonly be had as part ofa larger unit Ahard
High-Explosive Armor Piercing Round or Hammer Head
Poim, for example, is a weapons mounting on a vehicle, You can't
RoucidTwosimilarant-vehicularGausscannon roundswhch peneirate
requisition a hard point,You'd haveto requisition a grav tonk wirh a hard
hcavy arnor and then cxplode a shaped charge.
point, if you want one Other equipment is simply too expensive to
consider acquiring with Prestige. A Yery Large Coimunications Aray
HELLRound or HELLMissile
costs is much as most yearly planetary budects.
An arillery system or missile that causes small themonuclear
These two pages bniefly describe many of the Renegade Legion
explosions through the usc af gravitic cnergies.
items that fit.thcsc classcs Thcy also list miostafthe wcapon ahhrevia-
Laser
tions used by the military The vchicle stais at the end of this book rc
partly deschibed in terms of these abbreviations.
A wcapon sysiem which fires (puisesy coherent beams of light
generated through a Gennium-Arsenic crystal. Laser weapons are nor-
APLaser
mally rated by the length and diameter of their focusing crystal Thus,a
Anti-Personnel Laser.A laser weaponsystem mounted on ground
7.5/3 lascr has a crystal thut fs 7.5 melers long and 3 centimeters im
vehicles,used exclusivelyagainst dismounted infantry
diameier They are used in both ground and space combat.
APDS Round
MDC
Armor-Piercing Discarding Sabol Round, An anti-vchicular
Mass Driver Cannon, A weapon system consisting of a long tube
Gauss cannon round which penetrares heavy amor.
madc of superconductive matcnials, Small proicctiles are fed into the
breech and accelarated down the bamel. Used in both ground and space
Autoloading Hard Point
corbul
Rapid fire missile launching system A hard point (q.v which
allows onemissileto be Gred from the launchereachturnThe-maximum
N-Space
nunber of missiles that can be launched trom an autoloadinghard poin
Norinal Space.Thnee-dimensional spaceshe spuce-tinte contin-
during the course of a combal ce...before reloading it is o.
uum as weknowit.
DFM
NPC
Dead-Fire Clusters, A one-shol spicecraft weipon systen which
Neutron Particle Cannon, A long-range weapon system that fires
explosively discharges thousands of fragnents into an area lt is very
tichyon-chargedneutrons.ltcan onlyoperateinaaccum (i.cin space)
effective against heavily shielded targets.
P-Comm
ECM(ECMPod)
Phase-Polarization Communication System An interstellar
Elcctronic Counter-Measures,An ECM pod Isanelectronics suite
that is mounted on a hard point (qv.)to jam and disable the tracking
month. Some P-Comm scts are small enough to be carried by a penson.
systcms on hostile missilcs. It is availablc only on spacecraft.
Painting Laser
EPC
A Tascrthatpainis its largel, identifying the target'sexact location
Electron Particle Cannon.A short-range weaponr that fires elec.
for indirect fire and analyzing thcshield flicker rate tg.vJ of the target in
trons.ltcan.only beusedin avacuum ti.ein space).
order to negate its shields effectiveness: A painting liser can do no
danagc by itself.
Gauss Cannon
Adireci-freballisticweaponsimilartoa MassDriverCannon(q.v.y.
RIS
Griuss carnon shells can not be deflected by a shield,because ofthelr high
Radiation Intensity Seeking Missile. A spacecraft missile that
mass, Howevera their muzzle velocity relative to the MDo 's muzzle
hotncs in on a radiatioh source.
velocity.makas them inferior.weapons for space comba Gauss cannons
Shields
are raled by tdhediameter of the shellthat hey.fire: 2Smm,1SOmm,eic.
Shields are pressure-gravity waves which are impernvious to all
They areuscd only for ground combat
foms of enerey and which violently disrupt electronics.Therefore,they
Hard Point
are effective protcction against cnergy weapons, low-mass projectiles,
A mounting that allows missiles and other ordnance to be aitached
and missiles. Because of their inmimense power requirements, shiclds
and used by a ground vehicle or spacecraft.
rapidly flicker on and off, Weapons mounted on the shielded vehiclc anc
fired as theshicld flicks off,and all ofthe vehicle's clectronics are insync
196

--- PAGE 181 [OCR] ---
with its flickerrate.Shields donotdeflectobjecis which mass grcalerthan
Tachyon Meltdown
I0Ograms t.1kilogramy.Shields are rated intermsoftheir nickerrate:the
Thc result of spending over 30 continuous days in T-Space (q.v.).
highertherate,the less likely they aretobe penctraled,butthc tmore power
Nomal matter.that has bcen over this limit will beginto melt into a pool
they require.
of metals and organie smears. If the process is not stopped, the mass will
cxplode into a shower of tachyons.
Shimmer Heal or Tau Shimmcr
TGM
Shimmerheat (or Tau Shimmer) is the slight dow that surrounds an
objcct that has been in T-Spice (qy.).It is.the resutt of the dishamony
Transponder Guided Missiles.Aspacecraft missile (or mine) that
bctwcen nomal malter and the tachyon dimension. Because of this
attacks any tatget which does not exhibit proper TFP (identify: Friend or
disharmcny.themaximum contimuous timeany nomal object can spend
Foe):codes.
in T-Space is 3o days and a few hours,For every hour spent in T-Spacc.
Thor
an hour must be spent in normal space tobleed ofr the shimmer heal
An orbital bombardment system that launches kinetic energy pene-
which has builtup. See Tachyon Melidown.
trators against ground targets:
SMLM
TVLG
Sob-Munitions Laser-Guided Missile. A long-range anti-tank
Tubeor Vertically Launched Laser Guided.A shon-rangenti
missilenormally.mounted.on vehicles.-
tank misstle which can be mounted on a vehicle or camied and fired by
dismounted troops.
Scanner Silhouette Seeking Missile, A spacecraft missile that
VLCA
scans its trget pnior to launch, and then uses the resulting three-dimen-
Very Large Communications Array.A massive communications
sionalimagc lor guidance
system, using an arruy that is over a kilometer in length and width, that
T-Doppler
provides nearly instantancous communications across the galaxy.
A detection system which combines P-Comm (q.v) and doppler
Vulcan
fadar technology to detect ship movemcots in T-Space tq-v.).
A point-defense anti-missile system used by ground vehiclcs.
T-Space
Tachyon Space, An aliematc dimension in which faster-than-lighi
travel isnotonly.possible,bul necessary

--- PAGE 182 [OCR] ---
LGGIONNAIRE
Rene
Reney
racesFound
en
Renegade
F9SA
52000
9781555601027
I58N1-55560-102-2