--- PAGE 1 [OCR] ---
RENEGADE
LEGI
ON
CIS
GUSTAVIT
BATTLEFOR
THE
REGRET
F959
THOMAS
ORESSMAN

--- PAGE 2 [OCR] ---
OGGGOGGGGGOOOGGG
DISTANT FIRE
Writing
Thom Gressman
Development
David Ladyman
Editorial Staft
Senmior Editor
Donna Ippolito
Assistam Eator
Sharon Tumer Mulvihill
Production Staff
Producrion Manager
Sam Lewis
ArrDirector
Dana Knutson
CoverArt
David Martin
Cover Design
Mike Nielsen
nsraron
Grant Goleash
Denis Nelson
Joel Biske
Jim Nelson
Layom
Tara Gallagher
ANOTHERSEANFROY
TAa Dragon PriAcass
991
Published by
CENTURION LEVIATHAN,INTERCEPTOR and RENEGADE LEGION are
FASA Corporation
Registered Trademarks of FASA Corporation. TOG.LEGIONNAIREand DISTANT
F99
FIRE are trademarks of FASA Corporation. Copyright  199I FASA Corporation
P.O.Box 6930
Chicago,IL60680
All Rights Reserved.Printed in the United Siales of America

--- PAGE 3 [OCR] ---
GGGG
BODC
TABLEOF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
How to Use the Scenarios
Skill Checks
OPERATION DISTANTFIRE
A Brief History
SO18AMM023HTC2OTWO
Gustaviv's Regret
A Strategic and Tactical Analysis
10
COMMANDERS
TOG
Lucius Oetaeus Longinius
14
Rufio Timmons
Joseph Kuroda
16
Commonwealth
Constance Burke
2A93
AVDM
De! a'y
18
David Gunn
19
PROTOTYPEHORATIUS
20
CAMPAIGN RULES
21
General Rules
21
Distant Fire Special Rules
21
Optional Rules
SCENARIOS
Deaf and Blind
26
Invasion
30
Rode the Six Hundred
Shakers Shaken
36
Fog Bound Massacre
38
Thor's Chariot
40
Lichen Plains
Into the Frying Pan
46
Wolves among Sheep
50
Smash and Grab
On the Wings of Angels
55
To Raise the Devil
58
Relief Fleel
61
Dust Clouds
64
Backbone at Last
67
Stalemate
70

--- PAGE 4 [OCR] ---
GGGGGOGD
INTRODUCTION
LVBIEOECOEML
In fall 68i8. a TOG task forcc emerged from T-space in the
Game Set-Up also lists the TOG Forces and Commonwealth
Gustaviv's Regrel system. Under thc conmand of Admiral Lucius
Forces for each scenario, In some cases, this means referring back to
Oetaeus Longinius,thetaskforce'smission,codenamed DistantFire,was
previous sccnario results to determine the current scenario's forces. Also
to invade Gustaviv's Regret, smash the Commonwealth garrison, and
noted is each unit's staring position on the board, or where and when it
secure the system for Caesar. More important than the planei's stralegic
enters if the scenario calls for it to arrive afier the action has begun, For
location were its large deposits of trocobolt and gennium-arsenic orc,and
those players who just want to play specific scenarios, the Historical
its lascr-crystal processing facilities.
Forces that actually fought the battle are listed when variable forces are
possible.
HOWTOUSETHESCENARIOS
Game Length tells how long the scenario lasts, or what conditions
end it. Special Rules lists any modifications that apply to a single sce-
nario.
The Rules chapter bcgins with the Campaign Rules for playing all
Viclory Conditions lists specific objcctives for one or both sides,
sixteen scenarios as a continuing campaign. Distant Fire Special Rules
and describes the vanous possible outcomes of cach sccnario. Pay close
covers spccific situations that occur several times during the scenarios. In
attention to the number and type of units lost in each scenario. Most
particular, they tell how to integrate Centurion, Interceptor, and Le-
scenarios are related, The forccs used in a later engagement often depend
viathan. Optional Rules are just thal, optional, but they should makc the
on the losses sustained in an earlier battle.
play of the Distant Fire scenarios more entertaining.
Each of the sixteen scenarios recreates one of the cngagcnents foughl
SKILL CHECKS
in the Gustaviv's Regret campaign. Unlike other scenario packs, Distant
Fire uses all of the Rencgade Legion game systems (Interceptor, Cen-
turion,Leviathan,and Legionnaire),rather than focusing on one systerm.
Players will have to make skill checks in the scenarios.Distant Fire
Each scenario opens with a firsthand account of the battle. given by
uses the following conventions for these checks.
someone who participated in the action or who later reported on it. This
Askill check lists the skill being tested,followed by the appropriate
account is followed by a brief discussion of the battle's histonical context.
altribute (abbreviated) and the number of dice to be used. For example,a
Game Set-Up provides special game information needed to play the
5dieStealthskill check based onDexterityisindicated by Sreafrh:DX (5)
scenario, including instructions for laying out the maps and any special
An opposed check follows a similar format, but also indicates the
terrain features, Players will need copics of Interceptor, Centurion.
defender s total, either by listing the opposing skill or the opposing total:
Leviathan, and Legionnaire to play all of the scenarios included in this
Stealrh: AG/Steairh: TO or Stealrh: AG//4. Opposed checks use one die
unless the gamemaster rules otherwise, so no number of dice is givcn.
campaignpack.
INLIL

--- PAGE 5 [OCR] ---
GGOGGGGGGGG
GOOGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
OPERATIONDISTANTFIRE
sbnniinHa
tsbnamooosru.eoo-oarosdaMbpoa
BRIEFHISTORY
TASK FORCETEMERARIUSSTRIKES UODM MTPD
On22October6818,Task ForceTemerarius emerged from T-space
in the Gustaviv system, where it was met by clemcnts of the
In December 6809. TOG military strategists began planning thc
Commonwealth's 43120th Defense Sguadron (the Sword Blunters).
invasion of Shanncdam County. Using intelligence gathered by infil-
Under the command of Commodore De! a'v,a Baufrin,the 43120th put
up a stifffight.The TOG naval commander,Commodore Joseph Kuroda.
tems, they were able to determine that the Commonwealth had heavily
sent his heaviest vessels to engage the Commonwealth flcet, while
reinforced the county's border worlds. Realizing that any assault on thosc
assigning both of his destroyers and one frigate to escert the transports to
systems would be costiy in both men and materiel, the strategists began
their drop points. Kuroda has been widely criticized for this decision.
looking foraltematives to a frontal assault.Further intelligence indicated
Experts feel that if he had kept his forces together, there would have becn
that systems farther behind the Commonwealth lines were even more
fewcr casualties among the transports and lighter warships (Invasion).
lightly defended than expected The commanders decided that second-
Kuroda 's detractors cite the Commodore's decision as the reason
line units would make feints toward Zama and Ve'Fros, while the real
Operation Distant Fire failed to secure the entire planet with the initial
invasion fleets would strike at Ancona.
drop.They claim that,had the groundforces not suffered so muchdamage
In 6811,the hammer fell.
while still in the transports, the 3794th would have been able to take care
TOG fleets swept across the spinward sections of Shannedam
of the planetary defenders in short order, instead of being forced to fight
County like wildfire through dry grass, It took five years for the combined
a protracted campaign.
Commonwealth and Renegade amcd forces to begin stemming the tide.
Thedogged defenseof Saguntum l1l,between 6815 and 6818,brought the
OTasomedind
UNOPPOSED LANDINGS
racing TOG legions to a grinding halt, and gave the battered defenders
In spiteof the viciousdefense put upby the Commonwealth fleet,the
time to catch their breath.
actual landings were virtually unopposed. Only in the mountains north of
In carly 6818, the TOG commander in Shannedam County,General
Fog Bound did the planetary defense force stand up to the invaders.
Theo Papodophilus,choseto continue the invasion according lo schedule,
Elements of the 5oi2th Marine Pursuit Wing CThe Court Jesters) struck
instead of waiting until Saguntum Ill had becn secured. Some analysts
at the TOG grav tanks as they left their transports, then followed them
believe that his cagermess to proceed was inspircd by a not-so-delicate
down to thc planet's surface, where the Eighth Battalion, 64th Com-
shove from Overlord Aldron Mannius, rather than by any impatience of
monwealth Legion (The Earth Shakers) immediately engaged the in-
his own.
vaders in a bitter slugging match (Rode the Six Hundred). Eventually
Whatever the reason, on 13 October 6818.Task Force 7emerarius.
the Commonwcalth battalion took heavy losses and was forced to with
consisting of the 3794th Strike Lcgion (The Molemen of Orion's Arm),
draw southward, After that, the TOG forces were allowed to land
and supported by clements of the 20203Ist Harasser Squadron (The Grim
unmolested.
Herders), jumped for Gustaviv's Regret.
CAUTIONOR COWARDICE?
PRE-INVASION OPERATIONS
Moving swifily.the TOG invasion force consolidated its positions
Hoping to catch the defenders of Gustaviv's Regret napping, Gen-
in Gustaviv s northern reaches. Their planethead secure. the 3794th
cral Papodophilus sent several small, specially trained Marine strike
struck southward. In a series of probing actions, Prefect Rufio Timmons.
teams oul ahead of the invasion force lo capture or destroy T-Doppler
the commander of the 3794th, learmed that the Commonwealth leaders
tracking stations at crucial points along the invasion route, The most
had little will to fight.
critical strikc was assigned to the elite Scvcntecnth Marine Strike Team.
Brigadier General Constance Burke's unwillingness to engage the
Their assignment was to capture the T-Doppler tracking station that lay
invaders has been the subjcct of much debate. Some believe that the
only five light years spinward of the Guslaviv system, directly along the
Brigadier General simplyfoldedunderthe strain of command.Others feel
route to be taken by the invasion fleet.
that the critical wound shereceived on Utica IV shook her self-confidence
Once the station was secured, the team was to continue nomal
so badly that she was unable to make a decision and stick to it. Rumors
operations, in the hope of masking the invasion fleet's approach.
pcrsistthat a small group of officers demanded that she be court-martialed
The ploy worked, but just barely.
in the months following TOG's invasion.
The Sevenleenth MST attacked as planned, but was met by unex-
Taking advantage of Burke's indecision, Timmons ordered his forces
pectedly stiff resistance from the station's security troops. The TOG
to strike further south, hoping to capture the Commonwealth bases at Fog
Marines secured the operations center a scant three minutes before the
Bound and Egg and the trocoboltmines north and westof Barton's Fire Sea.
invasion fleet passed within range of the station's detectors. It took
The assault on the mines was a complete success. Elements of the
anotherfifteen minutes forthe Seventeenthto secure the rest ofthefacility
3/64th opposed the TOG advance in the mountains north of the Fire
after the fleet had passed (Deaf and Blind).
Sea, but were driven back by the 4/3794th armor.Accurate long-range
Despite the nearly botched assault on the T-Dopplertracking station,
fire by TOG grav tanks destroyed the 3/64th's advance units, while a
series of air strikes and artillery barrages forced the Commonwealth's
main body to withdraw (Shakers Shaken).

--- PAGE 6 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGOGGGGD
The attack on Fog Bound was met by the Second Battalion of the
CMOITA
64th Legion. In a deadly game of cat-and-mousc,TOG gray tanks rooted
out the Commonwcalth defenders and took possession of the city (Fog
Bound Massacre).Following the day-long baitle, the TOG conmander.
Centurion Maximus David Mnel, herded his Commonwealth prisoners
YHOTPHAH
into a partially destroyed apartment building and ordered the structure
bumed to the ground, Prisoners who tried to cscape were cut down with
thc APlasersrmounted on the 4/3794th s tanks.For this barbaric action the
Commonwealih has branded Mnel a war criminal and has offered a
bounty of 10o.ooo talents to the individual who tums Mnel in to answer
for his crimes. The bounty has yet to be collected, In memory of this
atrocity, the battle-cry of the 64th Commonwcalth Infantry Legion has
become.""RemcmbertheFourih!"
LICHEN PLAINS
Atthe same time as theattack on Fog Bound,clemcnts of the veleran
2/3794th struck out toward Egg,but were easily repulsedbythc other half
of the Second Battalion. Seeing the base at Egg as both a thrcat and a
valuable prize, Prefect Timmons requested permission of Admiral
Longinius to launch a major offensive. In prcparation, several Thor
satellites were placed in orbit over Egg CThor's Charioti. In the carly
morming hours of 8 Novembcr, the attack began, heralded by a massive
bombardment from elenents of the TOG fleet. The Commonwealth
defenders reacted guickly, In a flash of courage, rare for her this early in
a campaign, Brigadier Gencral Burke ordered the Second to hold at all
costs. The surviving vessels of thc 4312Orth Defense Squadron moved in
to strike at the TOG fleet. The entire 5012th Pursuit Wing scrarmbled to
engage the swarming TOG fighters. On the ground, the Second Battalion
met the TOG advance in the open country northwest of the Imp Sea. In the
battle of Lichen Plains, the Commonwealth forces, unable to stop the
TOG onslaught, were pushed back until they vanished into the hills
overlooting the sea (Lichen Plains).
toll on pilots cooped up in tiny cockpits on minimal life support. The group
FRYINGPAN
was out of action, recuperating, for an additional two weeks, From a
After the rout of the 2/64th at Lichen Plains, the TOG invasion fell
military standpoint, the battle was a draw (Into the Frying Pan).
back onto its rigidly defined doctrine of declining to follow up its initial
gains with active pursuit. Instead, it began a series of probing attacks
PUSHING SOUTH
which met only token resistance.In November.theharassing raids carried
Continuing its inexorable advance south,theinvasion force met with
out by the 5O12th Pursuit Wing became such an annoyance to the TOG
little more than a few militiaunits determined to defend theirhomesrather
fleet thal Commodore Kuroda ordered the Sol2th's bases located and
than yicld meekly to TOG. Since few of these units were equipped with
destroyed. Reconnaissance missions finally located one base on Frying
grav amor, they proved no match for the invaders (Wolves among
Pan, thc second planet in the Gustaviv system. That world's extrernely
Sheep). Even when the 64th did stand and fight against the 3794th, there
low gravity ruled out the use of grav armor, so the TOG invasion
was littlethe overmatched Commonwealth troops coulddo.The pin-pnick
command assigned the task to a Marine combat unil.
attacks took their toll on the Commonwealth forces, Men and mateniel
On 4December,several Pharefra Class corvettes,escortedby a group
were being lost slowly but steadily.Raiding TOG supply dumps for food
of heavy fighters, swooped down on the 5012th's base on Frying Pan. The
andammunition became a way of life to some hard-pressed units (Smash
elite Iisth Marine Special Combat Century was aboard the corvettes. On
and Grab)y.
the ground, the Marines spread oul quickly, securing thcir assigned
As the front lines crossed the equator in January 6819,some
objcctives,until they reached the main hanger facility.There they werc met
Commonwealth officers began to discuss relieving Brigadier General
by the bulk of thebase's troops.In the bloody fighting thatensued,vacuum
Burkeofcommand.Rumorscirculated ofseveral unitsdeserting enmasse
claimed almost as many lives as gunfire. The 118th MSCC suffered 83
to TOG, It seemed that nothing thc defenders could do would prevent
percent casualties, including Centurion Michael Eadmonds, the unit's
Gustaviv's Regret from falling to TOG.
commander. Both sides claimed victory in the action on Frying Pan. The
118th MSCC forced this unit of the S012th Pursuit Wing to abandon its
LIGHTATTHEEND OF THETUNNEL
On2February6819,the badly mauled 64th Commonwealth Legion
base,but was destroyed itsclf in the process, Many of the 5o12th's fighters
received a glimmer of hope. A single Pegdsus class corvette slipped
escaped from Frying Pan unscathed, but were unable to rendezvous with
theirtransport for a micro-jurmp to Gustaviv's Regret. They had to travel the
through the TOG blockade with a message. A relief flect was due in
intervening distance in normal space, a four-day trip that exacted a heavy
twenty-five days.

--- PAGE 7 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
In response to this good news, General David Gunn, commander of
area and creale dense clouds of gusting dust.The volcanic nature of the
the 64th, launched a series of potentially suicidal raids deep into TOG.
soil meant that the dust storm should not only obstruct normal vision, but
occupled teritory, One of thesc raids, codenamed Operation Gabriel.
degrade sensors as well. The plan was to use the storms as cover and catch
the TOG garrison at Trosos by surprise.,
smashed the Interceptor base at Rose Thon and threw the cntire Ninth
Cohortofthe 3794th intodisarray (On the Wings of Angels and To Raise
sf In the early moming hours of 2 March 6819, the veteran First
the Devil).The 9/3794th spent weeks hunting the raiders, but cvcry time
Battalion of the 64th Commonwealth Legion, augmented by elements of
the Ninth got close, the Commonwealth forces slipped away from their
the 219th B'ckkal Infantry Regiment, set off for Trosos. Crossing the
pursuers and back across their own lines. By thetime the search was called
Plains of Dust was a nightmarc. Dcspite careful programming of the
off, the Ninth Cohort had been scattered, without once engaging the
tanks inertial navigation systems,several vehicles got lost in the blowing
Commonwealth faiders.
dust.The second platoon of the First Company,I/64th,became involved
in a multi-vehicle collision, which brought the entire column to a
RELIEFATLAST
standstill while the grav tanks were pried apart.
As promised,the Commonwealth relicffleetarrived in-system on 27
The task force amived at Trosos almost twenty-four hours after it
February 6819. Elements of the 3032nd Carier Patrol Squadron slashed
started out. The Commonwealth forces deployed for battle, but before the
into the surviving TOG capital ships, hoping to clear a path for dozens of
attack could be launched, a Wolverine light grav tank was hit by a 20Omm
Mound Class transports. Commodore Kuroda, wanting the glory of
APDS round. TOG's degraded sensors had still managed to detect the
destroying the Commonwealth flcet for himself,ordered his flagship., the
advancing gravtanks and soundthealarm,barely in time.Instead ofa quick
Temerarius, to engage the largest of thc incoming Commonwealth
overrun, the Commonwealth task fonce had a fight on its hands.After two
vessels.This ship was the RLS Corinor,a Carrhage Class cruiser under the
hours of hide-and-seek fighting, complicated by blinded sensors and
command of Commodore Archibald Douglass, As the TOG battle cruiser
opaque clouds of gray volcanic dust, the 1/64ch was able to drive the TOG
closed with the Connor, the Commonwealth ship poured broadside after
forces outof Trosos,The battle of Trosos was the first major victory for the
broadside into the onrushing ship, In desperation, Commodore Douglass
Commonwealth since Operation Distant Fire began (Dust Clouds).
ordered the Comnor's last missile barrage launched at the Temerarius.
ANACCIDENTALOFFENSIVE
Nothing seemed to slow the monster's charge. Suddenly. one of the
smaller ships in the Commonwealth fleet flew to the Corinor's aid. An
Ajar Class destroyer.the N'Carh Co M'mn (Shining Fury),came hurtling
Burkc and her staff began to plan a new offensive.Using the forces driven
across the Connor's upper hull. Atfull thrust, the little destroyer smashed
out of Alist by the TOG advance, Burke intended to push northward in
into the Temerarius's bridge. The shattering impact broke the flagship's
hopes of liberating Alist, Egg, and Rose Thorm, Patrols and reconnais-
back,killing Commodore Kuroda outright and fatally wounding Admiral
sance flights were sent out to take stock of the cnemy presencc in those
Longinius,bhi HcchoJo
areas. The information they brought back was encouraging. Only a few
The destruction of their flagship left the remaining TOG ships with
TOG units were operating between Alist and Egg, while the garrison at
little stomach for fighting, Kuroda's second-in-command, Navarchos
Rosc Thorn was comprised of infantry and a few badly darhaged gray
Philip Augustine, assumed command of the battered task force, but was
APCs. This news gave the planning staff some cause for relief, but one
unable to prevent the relief fleet from delivering its reinforcements to the
question remained. Where were the heavy gray armor units that had
driven the 64th this far south? It was not long before they found out.
planet below.
fhcAugustine would later state in his personal log,"Our chances of a
On 17 March, a platoon of light grav tanks on routine recon east of
quick victory on Gustaviv's Regret were destroyed with the Temerarins.
the Kamar Forest meta unitof TOG heavy grav armor.Calls for help went
Once the Commonwealth relief fleet dropped its reinforcemcnts, thc
out from both sides, Battle lines lengthened as reinforcements flooded in
Commonwealth troops on the ground knew, as did their ships in space,
from the Commonwealth 10/64th and the TOG1/3794th.The luid
that they had not been forgoten or abandoned, With the influx of new
situation outran the commanders' ability to control it. Elements of the
troops and equipment for the 64th, thcy will be able to hold out indefi-
Commonwealth fleet, called in to support their comrades on the ground.
Were intercepted by thebattered ships of the 202031st Harasser Sguadron.
nitcly. I believe that when we manage to take that accursed planet,if we
ever do, all its resources we covet so greatly will never offset the termiblc
It was rapidly becoming a replay of Lichen Plains.
price in lives and equipment that it will cost.ou w
This time, however,Brigadier General Burke refused to back down.
Reinforcements poured in from everyquarter.Suddenly,Alpha Company
TROSOS
ofthe 1o/64th,under Captain W.S.Hanlon, broke through the TOG lines.
With the arrival of reinforecments from Moshelle and Da'Valk.
Swinging his company likc an enormous gate, Hanlon smashed into the
Brigadier Gencral Burke seemed to find a new will to fight, For several
TOG left flank, At thc same time,a massive artillery barrage shaltered the
hours, she and her staff secluded themselves in thc legion's command
invader's night, With one flank destroyed and the other under heavy
center. Exactly what went on behind those closed doors, no one knows.
assault, the TOG resistancc collapscd (Backbone at Last).
When the command staff emergcd, they had devised a new plan of battle.
The first blow of this new campaign was to fall at Trosos, a large
A WORLD BESIEGED
mining and refining community west of Barton's Fire Sea. Meteorologi-
With the defeat of the First Cohort of thc 3794th Stnike Legion,all
cal forecasts indicated that a strong front was moving into that area
TOG offensives on Gustaviv's Regret ground to a halt (Stalemate).
bringing with it high winds and thunderstorms. Brigadier General Burke
Brigadier General Burke ordered the Commonwcalth defenders to dig in,
hoped that the violent storims would ground the TOG air power that so
fearful that her lines of communication would become overextended.
often turned the tide of battle in favor of the invaders. In addition, she
After a few short months of bloody. fluid bautles, the invasion of
hoped that the gale-force winds would pick up the fine volcanic soil of the
Gustaviy's Regret settled into a prolonged siege

--- PAGE 8 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
Gustaviv 's survey was the most comprehensive yet undertaken, and
Overthe years.there has been littleshifting in the lines on Gustaviv's
Regret. The Commonwealth has managed to keep the majority of the
even more accurate than those of the Baufrin cartels. He discovered
massive quantities of trocobalt as well as raw gennium-arsenic crystals
planet's population under its control, and has kept the A-G mines in the
ripe for the plucking on the scattered moons and asteroids littering the
asteroid belt operating,despite frequent raids by the TOG navy.The TOG
system. Gustaviv immediately filed his claims, leading to the discovery
forces on Gustaviv's Regrel currently control more than SO percent of the
of the Baufrin secretdiggings as arush of prospectors and fortune-seekers
planet's surface and most of its on-planet mining and manufacturing
poured in. In memory of Gustaviv, the world and star were officially
centers.Freuent Interceptor and naval actions prcvent the safe operation
of any orbilal facilities. Caesar has pulled out much of his support of the
renamed Gustaviy's Regret.
As on so many other worlds,the Snow Plague devastated Gustaviv's
offensive into Shannedam County.making it difficult for TOG forces to
bring reinforcementsto drivethe Commonwealth from their trenches,On
Regret, killing ncarly all the Humans. The few Baufrin left bechind
the other hand, having only limited resources to spread over an extremely
cventually lost contact with the rest of the Commonwealth.
broad front, the Royal Army has been unable to exert cnough military
In 5024 the KessRith landed on Gustaviv's RegrelThey scized the
defunct mining operations, immediately enslaving the Baufrin they
leverage to throw the TOG invaders off-planet.
In.6829-30, Caesar launched a series of new offensives in
found, Using this planetas a Tora Lin (punishmcnt world) in Shannedam,
Shannedam County, renewing the assault on Messana and striking at
they sent criminals here from throughout the county for forced labor in the
Caesar's Folly and Caralis. Should those campaigns prove successful for
mines. Millions died over the centuries, and hatred for the KessRith was
the Terran Overlord Government the beleaguered defenders of
passed from generation to generation of slaves.
Even as aresurgent Humanity began toreclaim the restof Shannedam.
Gustaviv's Regret can expecl the fighting to heat up again.
the KessRith stubbomnly held onto Gustaviv's Regret because of its
GUSTAVIV'SREGRET
strategic ores. In 6577 the Commonwealth changed the KessRith's minds.
forcing them out of the system after five months of intense fighting.
Gustaviv's Regret is a world of extremes, both politically and
The Tiven-Rilus-Ope'Diar Megaplex also recognized Gustaviv's
geographically.Desolate plains with only the sparsest covering of lichens
Regret's value, establishing special trade relations with the world. This
and mosses suddenly change to tracts of primeval forest, while its seas are
economic stimulation attracted even more immigrants, eager for remu-
nerative work. More sophisticated technologies replaced the old mining
of fire as well as water. Its lands are occupied by both TOG and the
Commonwealth, locked in bitter struggle.
operations, and soon the planet was turning strong and steady profits.
From space, the most striking feature of Gustaviv's Regret is
Barton's Fire Sea,a bright-red splotch ofterrain several hundred kilome-
RECENTEVENTS
ters wide, A vision of hell on the surfacc of the world, this massivc basin
As TOG pushed into Shannedam, the CAF garrisoned Gustaviy 's
is where several erupting volcanos dump their lava. The unstable surface
Regret even more heavily, knowing that its trocobalt and laser-crystal
of Barton's Fire Sea has geysers and earthquakes, as wcll as small
deposits would be vital tothe wareffort. The 64th Commonwealth Legion
volcanic eruptions of its own.
(the Earth Shakers),a green unit under the command of Constance Burke,
The Imp Sea is a normal body of waler, but the fish and other marine
was given the task of defending the world.C
life may have been imported, Archaeologists and biologists suspect, but
s0io In 6818, the 3794th TOG Strike Legion managed to land on the
cannot yet provc, that an alien colony once existed hcrc prior to recorded
northern cap of the world,despite heavy Royal Navy interference.Quickly
historyotanm
consolidating its position, the TOG legion went after the 3794th in several
Further support for this theory are more than 13,0 large, carvcd.
probing attacks. Her unit outclassed, General Burke barely averted a roul,
egg-shaped stone statues standing upright on the rolling hills outside of
and withdrew her forces to the southern hemisphere of the planct.
Egg.They seem tohave been carvcd with sophisticated drilling lasers,but
Since that initial strike,the Royal and TOG Navies have engaged in
no trace exists of the race that carved them, or.for what purpose.iteti
an indecisive series of battles for control of the system. With both TOG
and Royal Navy bases in the system, Interceptor engagements are
EARLYHISTORY
common, Though the Royal Navy has more fighters for defense of the
Though the system was surveyed over two dozen times by 3300, it
planet, the TOG Navy has been using a light carrier stationed at Saguntum
was too remote to attract formal colonies immediately.The first settlers
Iml to boost their strike potential.
in the system were the Barton Clan, an extended family of Human
TOG presently controls 5O percent of the planet's surface and has
fugitives fleeing a religious tyrant in Keserdal County.Closc to a hundred
crippled most on-planet mining operations as well as all orbital manufac-
strong, they petitioned for and received the right to settle this rough.
turing. For its part, the Commonwcalth has managed to keep close to 75
inhospitable world for the Commonwealth.
percent of the population of the planet under its jurisdiction, and their
The world was officially named Barton's Regret after this ill-fated
heroic efforts have kept a supply of raw G-A crystals frbm the asteroid
first colony. Lacking sufficient financial resources, the Barton Clan was
belts flowing out to the rest of the County.
unable to maintain its fledgling colony. At that point several Baufrin
Using the natural terrain to keep the TOG forces at bay gives the
investment fims decided to fund the colony's revitalization. The secret
defenders some advantages, but not decisive ones. TOG has moved the
motivation behind this gesture was a mining cartel's discovery of tracc
9999th Infantry Legion to Gustaviv's Regret, stationing most of it on
amounts of trocobalt near the newly named Barton's Fire Sea.
Harrison and shuttling one century at a time to the surface.It is expected
While prelending to bolster the colony in yarious ways, investors
that the TOG forces will strike out against the CAF by late fall 6832.
poured money into sccret mining operations. No one was the wiser until
a Human explorernamed Amil Gustaviv arrived on the world to do some
prospecting.

--- PAGE 9 [OCR] ---
PLANETARYDATAGUSTAVIV'S REGRETTATEA
SYSTEMDATA
Star: Gustaviy's (A5 Yellow-White Main Sequence)
Orbital Period:
Stellar ChartA-11-060-006-23-Aa
Terran Registry:
Surface Gravity!
Rotational Period:
Luminosity:MA3.63solAa4HTLAWVOMMOD
37.0 hours
Orbiting Facilities:
Planetary System: 7 Planets: 1 Asteroid Belt: 6 Major Moons
none operational al this time
raieevni ff
Population:
Planetststo tnor inuveenicmsotndmoo iN tohoodartigan
4.99 million
Human:
71%
1 (Zone I,1)oFire Ice (2.270)
Naram:
2 (Zone2, 1) no t Frying Pan (5,727) anoa mgl7 ot t t
5%
Baufrin:
3 (Zone3,4)oDaysOff (10.270)amo
21%
HNCOMAMMUO
KessRith:
4 (Zone 4) m etinasteroid belt (no Medium Planetoids)
oanalqaobotnsnotDoTa
Others:
5 (Zone6,60)imGustaviv's Regret (10.270)ndgnilrdsaed bnim
<1%
Government:
43Moons:yb5 Major:Rug Rat (7.448): Shambles (1.687):
Contested CTOG Martial Law, Commonwealth
Histilock (1.685): Mortimor (1.583):-Dragontail
Parliamentary)
Capital City:
(1.504):15 Medium,23MinoreuaaLs
Rose Thom
Blue lce (104.270)
6 (Zone 7.131)
Major Cities (In order of size):
Rose Thom, Alist, Fog Bound, Iseltone, Dork, Egg
n13 Moons:-1 Major:Sink Hole (2.063):9Medium:3 Minor:i
00
7 (Zone 8, 243)  Frost Locker (48.003) lomp tukw
8 Moons: etu 6 Medium; 2 Minor ii raed rivoarl mybor
8(Zone9,457)
SnowPlow(28.106)
4 Moons: m h 4 Medium : sinao it yttorci togn (tlul
ogodaitbsbtaanmoulnwmldugoydimnoieobShse
Gustaviv's Regret
BOUND
TEHE
ALST

--- PAGE 10 [OCR] ---
ASTRATEGICANDTACTICALANALYSISH
ments between lesser elements of the Commonwealth defense squadron
and the TOG fleet. In cach case, Kuroda and.his subordinate officers
perfomed in an exemplary manner.twwolsY eA viveuc2
-Excerpt from Blood and Steel,The Imvasion of Shannedam Couny,by
Brenda Lavande, Commonwealth Publishing,6830
COMMONWEALTH/RENEGADE COMMANDERSORL
In comparison, the Commonwealth officer corps on Gustaviv's
The invasion of Gustaviv's Regret typified, in many ways, the
Rcgret was hcaded by a combat officer with scvcral years of experience
military sirategies and tactics of both the Commonwealth and the Terran
as a ficld commander.Yet,for some reason Brigadier General Constance
Overlord Govemment.
Burke failed to perform as one would expect of a field officer. Instead of
allowing her troops to make a stand, she ordered them to withdraw from
TOG COMMANDERS
cven thc mildest TOG offensive. Eventually.the-units under her com-
The TOG forces failed to exploit the opportunities presented to them
mand began falling back if theyeven thoughtthat TOGmightmake a push
by the Commonwealth's withdrawals. A number of theories have been
in their area of operation, Many theories have bcen advanced to explain
advanced to explain this lapse. The most common opinion holds that the
the brigadier general's uncharacteristic behavior. The most commonly
task was beyond the abilities of Admiral Lucius Oetaeus Longinius.
held belief is that Burke was uncertain of her troops, which were either
Longinius, who can best be described as a political officer, has never
fresh from training cadres or exhausted rermnants of previously destroyed
demonsirated the "killer instinct" necessary in an invasion commander.
units.TOG analysts believe thatthe brigadier general's poor performancc
Longinius deals not in tactics, but in timetables and doctrine. This is not
was a stunning example of why the Patria Potestas is a just law.A small
to say that the Admiral was strategically or tactically incompetent.
body of theorists believe that Burke's hesitation was caused by the
Longinius laid out a workable invasion plan, The problem lay in the
horrible wound she received on Utica IV. Despite the faci that she had
execution of the plan. Several times during Operation Distant Fire, the
fully recovered physically.it is possible that Burke had not yet recovered
Commonwealth forces were driven back with heavy losses, Rathcr than
mentally from the terrible injury. If this was indeed the case, Burke may
seizing the opportunity to push forward, Longinius ordered his troops to
have been psychologically unable to order young men and womcn into a
hall, regroup, and return to the nigidly defincd invasion plan. Some
siluation from which too many would not retum.
military historians have attempted to exonerate Admiral Longinius by
Burke'snighi-hand man duringthe defensc of Gustaviv's Regretwas
claiming that he was protecting his lines of supply and communication.
a young ex-tanker, Gencral David Gunn. Like Burke, Gunn was an
A certain amounl of credence can be given this claim. Many times in the
expcricnced ficld commander. Like his opposite number, Rufio
past, centuries, cohorts, and even entire legions have been destroyed
Timmons, he had never commanded so large a force in battle. This lack
because their supply and communication lines became overextended,
of hard experience didn't deter the general. When the 3794th Strike
allowing theirenemies to cut themofffrom any assistance,Even so,there
Legion dropped into Gustaviv's Regret, Gunn ordered his beloved 64th
can be no argument that by passing up several chances to seize the
Commonwealth Legion (The Earth Shakers) to stand fast. Gunn believed
initiative Longinius lost the opportunity to cnd the Gustaviv's Regret
thatif the 64thcould hold the TOG advances to a minimumand makethe
campaign quickly.
invaders pay dearly for each advance, then the Commonwealth forces on
Neither all the blame nor all the praise for the ground actions in the
Gustaviy's Regret could hold out until they were reinforced, Bnigadier
Gustaviv's Regret invasion can be laid at Admiral Longinius door. Some
Gencral Burke ovcrruled her subordinale, ordering Gunn's troops to fall
of the credit and responsibility has to go to the Prefect of the 3794th Strike
back, rather than stand against what she believed to be a superior TOG
Legion, Rufio Timmons. Timmons' detractors hold that the Prefect
forcc, Burke s usurpation of Gunn s command was the cause of several
lacked the experience and*hands-onknowledge necessary to direct such
loud and colorful arguments betwcen thc two officcrs, Onc of Gunn's
a large body of men under the difficult conditions of a planetary assault
aides claims that the arguments got so intense at one point that Gunn
These analysts,many of whom hold Admiral Longinius blameless for the
screamed at his commander, *If I had a sword, General, I'd break it over
setbacks suffered by the TOG legion during Distant Fire, conveniently
my knee.Or,better yet, over your thick skull!" Gunn then stormed out of
forget that Prefect Timmons was not given the degree of personal
Burke's headguarters. This conflict wentl on for wceks,until the Pegasus
discretion necessary when commanding so large a force as the 3794th
Class corvette Eldritch arived with word of the relief fleet. Suddenly.
Strike Legion. Where a commander less restricted by his superior would
both generals were willing to work together.
have been able to press the attack, Timmons was,time and again, ordered
The 4312oth Defense Sguadron.under the command of Commodore
to halt and regroup.His lack ofexperience did not significantly hinder the
Del a'y, was the only Commonwealth combat arm to maintain heavy
Prefect's performance of his duties. Unlike many TOG commanders.
resistance to the TOG presence in the Gustaviv system throughout the
Timmons preferred to direct his troops from close to the front. Occa-
entire invasion campaign. Once the TOG fleet had pushed through the
sionally,this proximity to the fighting made it difficult for reports from
43120th, Del a'v ordered his fleet to take refuge in the relative safety of
other fronts to reach Timmons in enough time for the Prefect to take
the asteroid belt, From there, the Sword Blunters launched dozens of
appropriate action, but the boost to the morale of the troops serving near
annoying altacks on the outlying elements of the TOG20203st Harasser
him more than made up for any reverses in other sectors.
Squadron (The Grim Hcrders). Though these attacks failed to inflict any
The naval elements of the invasion force were handled much belter
real casualties on the TOG fleet, they did force Commodore Kuroda to
than their ground-bound counterparts, The actions of the 202031st
keepmany vessels on picketduty rather providing ground support. By the
Harasser Squadron under the command of Commodore Joseph Kuroda
time the relief fleet arrived, only three of the 4312Oth's six warships were
were well-planned and brilliantly executed, Aside from the large naval
in good enough shape to help break the TOG blockade.
actions studied by most histonians, there were countless smaller engage-

--- PAGE 11 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGL
GGG
GGGG
TACTICALDOCTRINES
STRATEGIC DOCTRINES
Throughout the campaign for Gustaviv's Regret, both sides planned
On a tactical level,both the Commonwealth forces and those of the
and fought their battles according to standard TOG or Commonwealth
Terran Overlord Govermment followed their own doctrines,ohmum
Naval Tactiesr Sdi ct 
doctrine.
ils Admiral Longinius followed the accepled practice of securing a
Naval tactics are fairly standard throughout the human sphere.Few
planet's vital industries and resource centers first. The pacification (some
differences exist in the way opposing fleets array themselves for battle.
would say the suppression) of the planct's population would be left to the
With the advent of the huge and powerful warships used by the "black-
garrison legions that would arrive after the world was secured. Military
water navies,naval tactics havc rctumed to those uscd during thc agc of
bases, trocobolt and gennium-arsenic mines, and manufacturing centers
sails. Ships are commonly deployed in one of a number of standard battle
are all primary targets tobe secured during the invasion of a world.Orbital
fonmations, and remain in that fornation until the battle is concluded.
facilities, like VLCAs and laser-crystal processing centers, are likewise
These formations are designed to allow ships -o support one another,
targcted for early capture by an invasion force.
while bringing the maximum amount of firepower to bear on the fleet's
Usually, large portions of a planet's food-producing regions are
objective.llnbrositt
destroyed during an invasion. However, the sporadic fighting during
During the approach to Gustaviv's Regret, Commodore Kuroda
Operation DistantFire leftmostofthe planet'sfarmland undamaged.This
deployed his fleet in a modified double-wedge formation. By placing the
was a major factor in the lack of guerrilla and partisan retaliation that
fleet's heaviest warships at the point of the leading wedge, he hoped to
characterizes most invasions. Since the 3794th was, for the most part,
blast a hole through the enemy line at long range. Then, as his warships
leaving the civilians alone, and bccause the people had enough to eat, the
penetrated the enemy formnation, the wedge's shorter-ranged, more
citizens of Gustaviy's Regret were not anxious to call attention to
powerful broadside guns would be used to widen the gap. By cxploiting
themselves by attacking the snall garrisons left behind by thc advancing
the newly made gap in the enemy s line,the attacking fleet would be able
to slip through with few losses.
TOG legion, However, most of the planer's population fled southward
rather than live under the invader's iron heel. Most hoped to find a way
The Commonwealth defense flect deployed in a double line abreast.
off-planet. Others signcd on with the 64th Commonwealth Legion. These
with the hcaviest vessels held in reserve.This formation allowed a rapid
voluntcers were used to replace infaniry casualties, or placed in militia
response to the cnemy's attack no malter what formation the TOG fleet
units thal were forming all along the front, During the six months of the
used. The biggest drawback to such a formation is the thinness of thelines
initial campaign for Gustaviv's Regret, cightecn militia regiments were
and the number of gaps it leaves between thc ships. A fast-moving. well-
fomcd, all bearing the same motto: This we'll defend."
armed opponent could have smashed through the line abreast before the
Where TOG doctrine calls forthe scizure of a planet'sresources first
outlying elements of the linc bcgan to react, Had this occurred, the battle
and thc pacification of its population sccond, it is the practice of the
would have becomc a losing chase.
At Gustaviv's Regret, the Commonwealth fleet began to react to
Commonwealth Amed Forces to first win the hearts and minds of the
people. (A common TOG witticism says."When you've got them by the
Kuroda's formation even before initial contact had been made. The
throat, their hearts and minds will follow.") The Commonwealth gen-
outlying arms of the 4312Oth swung in on the TOG vessels, prompting
erally accomplishestheir aim by giving aid and comforttothose whohave
Kuroda to take the majority of his hcavy warships out of line to meet the
been displaced by the fighting, rather than dumping them into refugcc
threat. Had he stuck to his original plan, the casualtics among his battle
camps or simply ignoring them, as TOG so often does, They believe that
fleet would have bcen high, but Kuroda would have been able to cause
if the population is on your side, you can reasonably expect them to give
enough damage to the Commonwealth lines to ensure that more of the
you as much assistance as they are able.On Gustaviv's Regret, this policy
transports reached the drop point safely.
paid off. Many times a local commander kncw the whereabouts of a TOG
In subsequent naval battles, particularly the action during the battle
unit long before that information was made available through the 64th's
of-Lichen Plains, the lack of waming left little time to prepare an
intelligence branch. Often, these indigenous "intelligence corps" pro-
organized attack. Both flccts fell back upon set-piece defenses. Using
vided commanders with valuable terrain and conditions data that would
Lichen Plains as an example, the Commonwealth fleet attacked in a
standard wedge with the Agic and the Caringorm as the point ships
not otherwise have been available. More than once, terrain information
provided by locals proved to he a valuable tactical asset to the Com-
Kuroda sent a signal to the vessels under his command, ordering them to
monwealth forces. During the Battle of Alist, for example,a few locals
run past the Commonwealth fleet's port flank in an echelon left. This
guided a platoon of Commonwealth infantry through the sewers and into
allowed all the ships in the TOG fleet to concentrate their firepower on
the TOG rear guard The plaloon destroyed a number of light tanks and
specific targets, while minimizing the number of guns the Common-
APCs before vanishing back into the subterranean tunnels, Throughout
wealth could bring to bear on the encmy ships. Both tactics worked as they
were designed to, but only for a short time. After a few initial exchanges,
the battle,these tunnelrats popped up bechind TOG lines, fireda few shots.
and disappeared again, Their activities becamc such an annoyance to the
thc ncatly ordered formations broke up when vessels from both fleets
TOG commanders that scveral infantry centuries were detailed to enter
werc crippled ordestroyed.Ships weredetailed offtoprovidefire-support
the scwers and root the commandos out of cheir tunnels, Lacking local
for the troops fighting on the ground, In the end, despite the best efforts
knowledge ofthe sewers,several TOG infantry squads got hopelesslylost
of Commodores Del a'v and Kuroda,all thoughtoforganized tactics was
forgolten.The ships of both fleets broke formation to engage targets of
in theunfamiliar surtoundingsntimesin!
By the time the fighting subsided into a stalemate in March of 6819.
opportunity. The originally well-ordered battle fell into a disorganized
the Commonwealth maintained control of over 75 percent of the planet's
melee.
population, and a small portion of the trocobolt mining facilities in the
mountains west of Barton's Fire Sea.

--- PAGE 12 [OCR] ---
Ground Tactics
Fighter Tactics
Interceptor tactics were likewise fairly standard, Both fighter com-
Onthe ground,thedifferences bclweenthe Commonwealth'stactics
and those of the TOG invaders became more apparent.iiadidi biin
mands operated on the pair-squadron-flight-group principal, assigning all
When the opposing forces engaged, the TOG units deployed in
the fighters of a particular unit lo the same task in thc samc operational
area.A pairof fighters.forcxample,might be assigned as ground support
standard three-tank V fomations,with the platoon conmander trailing the
for onc particular century orcompany.The squadron to which thcy belong
other vehicles of the platoon. The distance from point to point of these
would be assigned to that century's cohon (or company's battalion).and
inverted triangles is usually four hundred meters.This interval makes it less
the flight to the manus (or rcgimcnt), This fighter-to-unit ratio is fairly
likely that a single artillery barrage or minefield will damage or destroy an
high. In practice, a manus or regiment usually has no more than a single
cntireplaloon.Placing theplatoon leader atthe back of the fomation allows
squadron to callon,but this is generallyhow Interceptorunits are assigned
him to maintain control of the unit, while providing covering fire for the
to ground support roles.
leading elements of his platoon. This formation is well suited to TOG
' At Gustaviv's Regret, the Interceplor assets of both TOG and
military doctrine, because most tank crews are unaware of the ovcrall plan
of battle. Such details are gcncrally given only to the officers of a century.
Commonwealth forces played an important part in the overall campaign.
Some commanders view their fighter elements as a nuisance, but both
It then becomestheir responsibility to direct the unit according to that plan.
Kuroda and Del a y had experience in dealing with fighters, Kuroda as a
The reasoning forsuchadocrine is quite simple,The majority of TOG tank
pilot and Wing Commander,and Del a'v as the.caplain ofa frigate-class
crews are drawn from the plebeian population. Tank commanders are
carrier. This knowledge allowed both commanders to use their Intercep-
usually citizens. Century and cohort officers are usually lesser nobles and
tors to the best advantage. Kuroda look advantage of the TOG fighters
other higher-ranking citizens. This scgregalion of the command structure
heavy missile load in the anti-ship, Interceptor, and ground attack roles.
reflects the stnucture of TOG in general. As a result, infonmation is given
Commodore Del a'v used the Commonwealth fighters superior speed
only to those whom the TOG high command feel are capable of under-
and endurance, and the Commonwealth pilots greater expeniencc, to
standing and acting upon it: citizens and nobles, Indeed, most plebeians.
offsettheTOG fleet's larger numbers.
and somc citizens, lack the schooling necessary to make command deci-
sions on the moderm battlefield.
This idea of command by the privileged was the root of many of the
sctbacks suffered by TOG. It was not uncommon during the fighting on
Gustaviv's Regretfora TOG platoon leaderto beknocked out earlyin the
battle, leaving the remainder of the platoon to flounder around, uncertain
of what to do, It has also been said that the V fommation provides the
platoon leader with an extra layer of protection from the enemy, which is
why so many TOG PLs prefer it.
fi This formation is generally extended up through the chain of com-
mand. The command platoon of a century is generally deployed in a V
formation, trailing the othcr two platoons of the century, which arc also
deployed in V formations. Again, this type of deployment fits the TOG
doctrine oftelling the personnel of a unitondy as much asthey nced to know.
and leaving the control of a unit up to the highest-ranking officer present.
Additionally, this rigid command structure allows the officer corps to
maintain the strict control necessary for the TOG class system's survival.
The Commonwealth takes a more flexible attitude toward thc com-
mand and control process. Infonnation is disseminated throughout the
officer corps of a unit, who pass it along to the men under their command.
This allows the next-ranking man in a unit to assume command,should his
immediate superior bekilled or putoutofaction.Of course,thefinerdetails
of the battle plan are not revealed to every man in the unit. Only that
infornation which directly affects a unit's role in the plan is given out.This
allows the Commonwealth platoon leaders a greater degree of flexibility in
delemmining the fomation in which their units will enter a battle.
During the fighting on Gustaviv's Regret, the grealer tactical flex-
ibility ofthe Commonwealthforces had little effect on the outcome of che
battles. Given that Brigadier General Burke had ordered the 64th to only
engage in holding actions for the most part, and to fall back under what
most would consider negligible pressure from the enemy,no amount of
flexibility would havechanged theend result of mostof the engagements.
Only in thosc rare instances when Burke allowed the 64th to take on
a general engagement did the tactical superiority of the Commonwealth
legion have any effect. During the battle of Lichen Plains, the rigid
command and control structure of the TOG forces led to the destruction

--- PAGE 13 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGD
of several armored platoons whose leaders had bcen killed by air strikes
cal experience in commanding large forces under combat conditions.
or artillery fire, Lacking such basic information as the overall plan of
Admiral Longinius was a political officer and a nobleman, while Prefect
attack or the location of enemy units, these leaderless platoons blundered
Timmons was a citizen and a life-long soldier. Neither had ever com-
manded a body of men as large as they would be called upon to lead during
into heavy Commonwealth units and were destroyed piecemeal.
Operation Distant Fire
DOT
al  On the other hand, the increascd tactical freedom of the Common-
The commanders of the Commonwealthforces at Gustaviv's Regret
wealth units led to several ill-conceived and badly executed attcmpts to
launch counteroffensives intended to delay the TOG advance by putting
were a far more diverse lot. The overall cornmander, Brigadier Gcncral
the invaders on the defensive. Suchplans might have worked if they could
Constance Burke, was an experienced combat veteran, a capable leadcr.
have been carried out in a concerted fashion at kcy points along the front.
and, notably,a woman, Counter to the TOG's pathological dread and
Instead, a number of company commanders took it upon themselves to
distrustofaliens,thecommanderoftheCommonwealth4312OrhDefense
Squadron was a Baufrin. No alien could hope to rise so far in the TOG
strike out at the aggressors without waiting for support fromthcir brigade.
military. Indeed, few alien races arc accepted into the TOG military.
As a result, these independent counterattacks yielded little more than
Aliens are still regarded today as perpetrators of injustices suffered by the
slaughtered troopers and wrecked vehicles.
human race before the rise of TOG, Only General David Gunn, the
Infantry assels played a major role in the fighting on Gustaviv's
commander of the 64th Commonwealth Legion, would have been acccpt-
Regret. Both sides made heavy use of bounce sguads, and the Common-
able to the TOG military. though his plebeian (by TOG standards)
wcalth had access toa largenumberof foot-infantry units.With the axiom
"'shoot at the painted target" as standard doctrine in both the TOG and
heritage would have hampered his military career.
Commonwcalth armies, an infantry sguad's ability to illuminate enemy
GUSTAVIV'S REGRETAS A TESTINGGROUND
vehicles with lascr target designators was its most important function
Although very little was gained militarily from Operation Distant
during Operation Distant Fire. Even the use of anti-arnor missiles and
Fire, a great dcal was learmed technologically.
mortar rounds was secondary to the job of painting targets for the grav
The 3794th Surike Lcgion was issued the prototype Horatius me-
tanks.
dium grav tank just before it jumped for Gustaviv s Regret. In its hurry to
Opcration Distant Fire was unusual because of the number of
field the newly designed vehiclethe TOG Military Experimentation and
infantry battles fought during the campaign, The most notable of these
was,of course,the battleof Frying Pan.In that cngagement,gray vehicles
Design Board failed tofully test the Horatius before issuing it. As it tumcd
out, the original Horatius was somcwhat disappointing
were precluded because of the extremely low gravity of the small planet.
Even the use of bounce packs was severely restricted. However, Frying
This first Horatius was designed to mount both its Gauss cannons in
the turet. This allows for a greater arc of fire, however, the designers
Gustaviv's Regret campaign. Many planetary militia unils, lacking grav
failed to lake several factors into account.
The first of these was the extremely cramped conditions created by
vehicles or bounce packs, wereforced to engage the TOG invaders as best
this design.With the massive Malleus 15Omm Gauss cannon mounted co-
they could. In some ways, these valiant infantry and ground-armor units
axially with its SOmm cousin, there was insufficient space for all three
played a bigger role in slowing the TOG advance than did the 64th
crewmen, not to mention enough ammunition for both Gauss cannons to
Commonwealth Legion.
fight a protracted batile. To solve this problem, the original model of the
Air.naval.and artillery support fire were available only sporadically
Horatius called for the tank s driver to be situated in the hull forward of
to both sides during the battles for Gustaviv's Regret. The inability of one
the turret.in a fashion common to older tracked and wheeled tanks. Most
side or the other to gain air and space supcriority contributed much to the
of the ammunition was to be stored in the after portion of the hull, with
lack of fighter and naval support. Artillery was sparse. due to rapidly
only six I5Omm and eight SOmm rounds stored in the turret. Once these
shifting lines and uncertainty as to the true location of the enemy at any
rounds had been expended, the storage bin would be automatically
given time.
When support was available, it generally took the forn of a unit's
replenished by an automated fecd device.
dedicated artillery assets, rather than air strikes or naval fire. Only during
Neither of these solutions was acceptable to the tankers assigned to
the prototype Horatius. Often, a solid hit on the glacis plate was enough
the largest engagements did air and naval support play a major role. The
to seriously wound or kill the driver, even if the armor was not penetrated.
mostnotable ofthese battles were forthe Lichen Plains and Kamar Forest.
The automated feed device only worked if the turret was facing directly
In both of these engagements, not only did air and naval units provide
forward, and often took as long as three minutes to fill the turret ammo
support for the ground forces, but they became engagcd in battles of their
bins.In a running fight, these factors could spell doom for crews assigned
OWn.
to man the protolypes.
The second design flaw in the ncw tanks also stemmed from the
COMMANDSTAFES
placement of the weapons. The huge Malleus Gauss cannon recoiled so
Operation Distant Fire was interesting for the student of human
nature because of the racial and social composition of the opposing
scverely that it could shake the turret off its ring. preventing rotation, A
command staffs. In some ways, the invasion of Gustaviv's Regrel was as
tank with its turret frozen in place is as good as dead.
At the conclusion of Operation Distant Fire,the 3794th was relieved
much a test of the Patria Potestas and the TOG bclicf in the inferiority of
alicns as it was a military campaign.
of the troublesomc prototypes and theirold reliable Pallas grav tanks were
The TOG command staff, in accordance with the xenophobic,male
retumcd to them. The design flaws discovered during the invasion of
Gustaviv's Regret would require many years to fix,thus delaying general
dominated laws of the Terran Overlord Govermment, wcre all human and
deployment of the Horatius until 6826.
all male. Among them, only Commodore Joseph Kuroda had any practi-

--- PAGE 14 [OCR] ---
GGGI
COMMANDERS
TOG
steadily up through the ranks, until, on 15 May 6807, he was promoted to
the rank of Vice Admiral.In the action off Lonup in Keserdal County.he
was given command of a Cruiser Battle Group. In a rare display of quick
LUCIUSOETAEUSLONGINIUS
thinking, Longinius took his ships in a fast loop around Lorup, using the
Race: Human
planet's gravity as a slingshot, and drove into the Commonwealch fleet's
Age: 61
Sex: Male
force, the enemy ships ran for T-space and escaped.
Rank: Admiral
Following Lorup, Longinius was promoted to Admiral, and sent
Position: Invasion Force Commander, Operation Distant Fire
back to punching a consolefor TOGSOG.When he leamed of the assaults
Vessel:INs Temeraris
being planned on Shannedam County, he used his influence to get
Leadership Rating: 5
command of Operation Distant Fire.
Prestige:1350
Longinius knew that so far, he had been nothing more than a political
Fame:65
officer.He was determined to demonstrate his command abilities to both
Attributes:
TOG and himself at Gustaviv's Regrel.
AG
CHCNDXIQLKSPST
16110161117141010
PSYCHOLOGICALPROFILE
Skills: Astronavigation: 5, ECM/ECCM: 4, FTL Drive: 3, Gunnery
Longinius has always managed to get by without putting forth too
(Capital Ship): 3, Laser Fireanns: 3, Leadership: 6, Pilot (Capital Ship):
much effort. He is a competent man, but prefers to rely on connections
5.Protocol:5,Sublight Drive:4.Strategy (Ground):3,Strategy (Naval):
rather than personal effort to obtain his goals. His ambition is to be a
4,Tactics (Capital Ship):5, Tactics (Fighter/Small Craft):3,Xenoculture
respccted military commander,not just a respected military pen-pusher,
(KessRith):2.Zero-G Operations:4
and he hopes to achieve that ambition in Shanncedam County.
PHYSICALPROFILE
Admiral Longinius is of average height. His brown eyes and white
hair complement a seamless facce, tribute to his relatively untroubled.
sedentary life. He has scars from a close brush with death in his first
command, and suffers occasional aches from the wounds he rcceived.
BIOGRAPHY
Lucius Oetaeus Longinius is a true navy lifer. He was even bomn in
space. His father was the commanding officer of an orbital spacedock in
Faarast County, Medina, Lucius' mother went into labor while visiting
her husband aboard the station and delivered herchild in the orbital's sick
bay. Longinius followed his father from post to post until he was old
enough to enier the naval academy. One might expect that the lifelong
exposure to things naval would give Longinius an edge over his class.
mates.Unfortunately,he showed no signof having had any advantage,He
graduated from the academy in the lower third of his class.
His first posting was nearly his last, the command of a Cingulum
Class corvette femying officers around in a rear area. His ship was
attacked by Commonwealth Interceptors on a deep penetration raid.
Before he was able to make the translation into T-space, the corvette's
cockpit was breached, and Longinius was gravely wounded. To this day,
the Admiral claims that he can predict when raiders are going to strike by
the ache in the old wounds on his back.
He recovered from his injuries and was released from the hospital in
6783, when Longinius was assigned to the TOG Naval Procurement
Board There he spcnt the next eleven years ordering food and other non-
military supplies for the troops on the front lines. Playing heavily on his
family reputation, Longinius managcd to make contacts throughout the
TOG Department of the Navy.and in 6794 finagled himselfa comrnand.
Assigned to a Fuigur Class destroyer,Longinius took part in several
fleet actions, but never showed the flash of brilliance that is the mark of
a true leader.Over the years,Longinius used his political contacts to move

--- PAGE 15 [OCR] ---
GGGOGGGGGGGGGGGGG
RFIOTMMONS
Race: Human
Age: 49
Sex: Male
Rank:Prefect
Position: Prefect of the 3794th Strike Lcgion (The Molemen of Orion's
Arm): Commander,TOG Ground Forces, Operation Distant Fire
Leadership Rating: 5
Prestige: 1215
Fame:53
Attributes:
AGCHCNDXIQLKSPST
1514151316101114
Skills: Bounce Pack Operations: 2. Demolitions: 2. Environmental
Survival (Hostile): 3, Environmental Survival (Temperate): 3, Gunnery
(Ground): 5, Leadership: 6, Martial Arts (Brawling/Pugilism): 4.
MedTech: 3,Orbital Fire Support: S,Pilot (Ground):6, Projectile Fire
arms:4, Strategy (Ground):5,Tactics (Ground):6
PHYSICAL PROFILE
Blond-haired and blue-eyed, Rufio Timmons is the fair-haired boy
wonder of TOG, He embodies the qualities of the TOG ideal: a human
male citizen, attractive, intelligent,courageous, and charismatic.
BIOGRAPHY
Prcfect Timmons is the ideal soldier, according to TOG standards.
He was bom a citizen, servcd his first tem as an enlisted soldier in the
7931st Infantry Legion, then applied for acceptance into the Augustine
Military Academy. Timmons graduated from Augustine in the upper 25
percent of his class, and was appointed to the 4441st Garrison Legion as
an Optio.
Over the years, he has risen steadily through the ranks, distin.
guishing himsclf as a brilliant tactician and a brave and loyal officer, It
became a matter of pride to young Optio Timmons that he never led his
men from behind. He was always the first in an attack and the last in a
withdrawal.
In the battle of Seven Days,he outflanked a superior Rencgade force
and allacked their rear guard, This maneuver broke the Renegade lines.
and ended the bloody bautle in the rout of the 3519th Renegade Armored
Legion.
When TOG invaded Shannedam County, Timmons requested a
transfer to one of the strike legions. Recognizing his command ability.
TOG promoted thcn-Legatus Maximus Timmons to the rank of Prefect
and assigned him command of the 3794th Strike Legion.
PSYCHOLOGICALPROFILE
Prefect Timmons is ahighly respectedofficer,well loved byhis men.
and showing all the signs of achieving a brilliant career.He scems to have
reached an equilibrium within himself, and that quict confidence and
assurance is reflected by the men in his command.

--- PAGE 16 [OCR] ---
GGGG
JOSEPH KURODA
Race: Human
Age: 52
Sex: Male
Rank Commodore
Position: Commander, 20203lst Harasser Squadron (The Grim Herd
ers): Commander.TOG Naval Forces,Operation Distant Fire
Vessel:/Ns Temerarins
Leadership Rating:5
Prestige:1312
Fame:47
Attributes:
AGCHCN.DXIQLKSPST
13179161417151012
Skills: Astronavigation: 4, ECM/ECCM: 3, FTL Drive: 3, Gunnery
(Capital Ship):4, Gumery (Fighter/Small Crafi): 5, Laser Firearms: 4.
Leadership: 6, Pilot (Capital Ship): 5, Pilot (Fighter/Small Craft): 5.
Protocol:3.Strategy (Naval):5.Sublight Drive:2,Tactics (Capital Ship):
5, Tacties (Fighter/Small Crafo): 5, Tactics (Ground): 3, Xenoculture
(Zog):3.Zero-GOperations:3
PHYSICALPROFILE
Joseph Kuroda is slightly taller than the averagemale.His black hair
and brown eyes are as much a testimony to his Oricntal heritage as his
name.The years he has spent in the military show on his face: his intense
devotion to duty has given him lines that are softened only by the signs of
his ready smile
BIOGRAPHY
Kuroda was bom on Terra in the ancient city of Hiroshima. He was
an odd blend of ancient samurai and modem Roman. He was also a
brillianrship commander.He began his naval career as an archikclcustes
aboard a Xerxes Frigate Class carrier.He got his first taste of combat as
a WSO in the back seat of a Legati heavy fighter. Applying hinself,
Kuroda leamed to operate not only the fighter's weapon systems, but to
fly the craft as well. Within six months, he was given a Pilum medium
fighter of his own.
Kuroda stayed in Interceptors, collecting promotions and decora-
tions the way other men collect their pay.In 6803, he was promoted to the
rank of navarchos, and assigned to the carrier INs Porria as her Com-
mander, Interceptor Wing. Kuroda devoted himself to leaming the
nuances of commanding a capital ship instead ofa fighter.His hard work
and perseverance paid off in 6814, when he was given command of the
INS Temerarius.
When TOG assigned the Temerarius'Battleship Battle Group to
Operation Distant Fire, Kuroda viewed the invasion as an assignment to
which he would devote nothing less than his total being.
PSYCHOLOGICALPROFILE
Commodore Kuroda can best be described as a career man. His
service to the TOG military is the most important part of his life, and his
desire to succeed shows in his rank and his attitude. His accomplishments
are matched by few others in the service. His exceptional skills and
driving ambition are, fortunately, offset by a sense of humor and real
affection for his fellow serviccmen.

--- PAGE 17 [OCR] ---
COMMONWEALTH
CONSTANCE BURKE
Race: Human
Age: 51
Sex: Female
Rank:Brigadier General
Position: Commander, Gustaviv's Regret Defense Force
Leadership Rating:5
Prestiget 1197
Fame: 41
Altributes:
AG
CHCNDXIQLKSPST
1314151214171415
Skills: Bounce Pack Operations: 2, Demolitionst 1, Environmental
Survival (Temperate): 3, Gunncry (Ground): 4. Laser Fireams: 3,
Leadership: 5. Martial Arts (Brawling/Pugilism): 3, MedTech: 4, Pilot
(Ground): 5.Projectile Firearms:4,Protocol:5, Strategy (Ground):5
Support Weapons: 3, Tactics (Ground): 4. Xenoculture (Baufrin):4
PHYSICALPROFILE
Brigadier General Burke is a prelly, slender woman with regular
features and a bright smile. She has a cybermeticimplant replacing her left
am and shoulder,the result of a massive injury sustained in battle. She is
self-conscious about the replacement limb, but is clearly deternined to
recover full mobility and naluralness in its use.
BIOGRAPHY
Constance Burke is the overall commander of the Gustaviv 's Regret
Defense Force. She entered the Conmmonwealth Amed Forces night out
of college. At first idealistic about making a contribution to halting the
spread of the tyranny of TOG, she has come to realize that all the ideals
in the universe cannot stop a Gauss cannon round, and that tyranny usually
wins unless freedom is very careful.
Burke started out as the driver of a Pedden artillery vehicle, but has
seen action in almostevery type of grav tank used by the Commonwcalth.
Never exceptionally brave or brilliant, Burke was a solid, competent
soldier and leader, until Operation Long Strike on Utica IV.
Then a colonel. Constance Burke commanded an independent
armored regiment When the 9lllth TOG Strike Legion altacked Utica
IV.her regiment bore the brunt of the fighting.At the battle of Mago's
Gate, Burke's Crusader was hit repeatedly by GLAD artillery rounds.
One of those massive anti-annor shells penetrated the tank's turet
through the comnander's hatch, sevcring her left arm at the shoulder.
Miraculously, Burke survived both the battle and the wound She was
evacuated to Rilus V, where she underwent extensive reconstructive
surgery. The severnity of her wounds made budding impossible, forcing
PSYCHOLOGICALPROFILE
the doctors to replace her left arm and most of the shoulder with a
Burke was an idealist in college,an attitude she quickly revised after
cybermetic implant.
her first battle. Her realistic outlook on life and its mcaning has stood her
Upon her recovery, Burke was assigned to command the Com-
monwcalth garrison on Gustaviv's Regret. Often following a major
in good stead throughout her career making her a competent, confident
wound, a soldier loses the indefinable quality that makes him a good
lcader. The injuries she suffered on Utica IV seem to have sapped her
confidence, and the strategy she mapped out on Gustaviv's Regret
soldier. The general's fricnds feared that she might have lost this intan-
showed that loss.Itcannot bedetermined if Burkefelta lack ofconfidence
gible somcthing, and placed her in a rcar area until her spirit could be
before shc was rcassigned tothe backwaterof Gustaviv's Regret, or ifthe
lested, Burke was unsure of herself, a factor thal many believe to be the
reassignment itself caused her to doubt her abilities. She recovered her
cause of her excessive caution during the early stages of the Gustaviv's
strong leadership skills in the latter part of the campaign.
Regrct campaign.

--- PAGE 18 [OCR] ---
DEIA'V
Race: Baufrin
Age: 41
Sex: Male
Rank:Commodore
Position: Commander. 43120th Defense Sguadron CThe Sword
Blunters):Captain, RLS Agic
Vessel:RLSAgic
Leadership Rating: 5
Prestige: 1516
Fame:59
Altributes:
AGCHCNDXIQLKSPST
9171413
19
1614(12L)13
Skills: Astronavigation: 3, Communications (P-Comm): 3, ECM/
ECCM:3,Electronics:4,FTLDrive:2,Gunnery (Capital Ship):4,Laser
Firearms: 2. Leadership: 6, Orbital Fire Support: 3, Pilot (Capital Ship):
4.Protocol:3.RcpairTech(CapitalShip):2.Strategy (Naval):5,Sublight
Drive: 4, Tactics (Capital Ship): 4, Xenoculture (Human): 3, Zero-G
Operations:3
PHYSICAL PROFILE
Commodore De! a'v is well into middle age as determined by his
race, and has acquired the bluish exoskeleton associated with the aging
process.
BIOGRAPHY
Del a'v began his career with the Royal Navy when he was still quite
young.Unlikemostcombat-commandofficershe did not startout aboard
a warship. He was assigned as an engineering officer to an antiquated
supply transpont named the Bergerac. In 6790, the Bergerac was attacked
by a squadron of TOG fighters near Quincy in Keserdal County.The
ship's captain and exec were killed in the first exchange of the battle.
leaving command of the freighter to the young Baufrin engineer.During
the fighting that followed, the Bergerac was badly mauled, losing 17 of
her 25 crewmen. None of the TOG medium and light fighters survived.
A board of inquiry cited Del a'y's quick thinking and daring as the only
reason the Bergerac cscaped destruction.
Shortly thereafter.Dela'v was transferred to the RLS Defiant Angel.
where he served with distinction until being offered his own command in
68lo, Under the newly-promoted Baufrin captain, the Carrhage Class
cruiser Gofden fought in the final defense of Utica IV to cover the
withdrawal of the 22212th Commonwealth Legion. In that action, the
Golden destroyed three TOG frigates and badly damaged the IvS Storm
Cloud, a brand-new Vulcan Class cruiser.
In 6816, De! a'v was once again promoted, this time to commodore.
and transferred to command of the 43120th Defense Squadron (The
Sword Blunters). stationed at Gustaviv's Regret.
PSYCHOLOGICALPROFILE
De! a'y has shown brilliance, resourcefulness, and good leadership
in his career. The personality changes normally associated with the
Baufrin molting process have not kept him from rising in military rank
This raises questions once again regarding the exact nature of these
changes. current research believes that the natural skills the Baufrin
possess are carried over in each molt, This new cvidence points to more
than manual abilicies bcing retained at each life stage, becausc it takes
more than just tactical excellence to be an effective leader.tssh sln

--- PAGE 19 [OCR] ---
DAVID GUNN
NAOH
Race: Human
Age: 47
Sex: Male
Rank: General
Position: Commander.64th CommonwealthLegion (The Earth Shakers)
Leadership Rating:5
Prestige: 1987
Fame:47
Attributes:
CH
AG
CNDXIQLKSPST
15
17141716151314
Skills: Ambush: 2, Bounce Pack Operations: 3, Demolitions: 2. Envi-
ronmental Survival (Hostile):2.Environmental Survival (Temperate):3.
Environmental Survival (Urban):2, Gunnery (Ground): 5, Knife/Knife
Throwing: 3, Leadership: 6, Martial Arts (Brawling/Pugilism): 3.
MedTech: 3. Orbital Fire Support: 3, Pilot (Ground): 5, Projectile Fire-
ams: 4.Protocol: 4. Strategy (Ground): 5, Support Weapons: 3. Tactics
(Ground): 6, Target Acquisition (Ground): 3
PHYSICALPROFILE
Commander Gunn is a huge man. Fortunately, he does not have the
temper historically associated with his red hair and green eyes. He has
many scars on his body from years of warfare in the armored platoons, but
he has managed to survive and even thrive on the tough assignments he
has drawn.
BIOGRAPHY
David Gunn was bom on Karff in Keserdal County only a few years
before that world fell to TOG. His parents were able to flee their
homeworld just as the invaders closed their blockade, Gunn spent his
early ffe in a succession of refugee camps, his family barely managing to
stay one world ahead of the advancing legions.
As soon as he was old enough, Gunn lefi home to enlist in the Royal
Amy.Though still only cighieen, he topped I80 cm and massed over 80
kilos, The recruiting officer tricd to talk him into signing on with the
Marines, but Gunn demanded an assignment with one of the armored
legions.Eventuallytherecruitergave in,and ninemonths later,Gunn was
a platoon leader aboard a Wolverine light grav tank in the 64th Com.
monwealth Infantry Legion
Gunn served witch the 64th until it was all but eliminated in 6798. in
the battle of Carrnen's Marsh.In the 64th s desperate attempt to break out
of the flooded forest, Gunn's platoon was attacked by a platoon of Pallas
medium grav lanks and was savagely mauled before managing to dis
engage. Gunn's Wolverine was so badly damaged that thc crew was
forced to abandon it and complete the withdrawal on foot.
After Carmcn's Marsh, Gunn was promoted to major in the 51 131st
Training Cadre on Ope'Diar,where hetook raw recruits and molded them
into tankers. In 68o0,the 64th was re-fomed. Gunn 's cadre was made a
PSYCHOLOGICAL PROFILE
part of the new 64th Commonwealth Legion and dubbed the Third
Gunn is notquite the stereotype of the gentle giant he has a steel core
Brigade.Gunn himself was promoled tocolonel and was allowedtoretain
to his pcrsonality.and no patience for incompetence orlaziness.His anger
his command.
is most often directed at what he sees as his own failings, particularly
In 68 I5,when General Parsons Pierce retired,he recommended that
whcn he feels he has failed in training new cadets, He takes it personally
the officer commanding the First Brigade succeed him. Fortunately for
if a soldier has potential and he is unableto help him achieve it. Heexudes
Gunn, the Royal Army's high command had other ideas, On 25 August
a quiet confidence that is shared by his superiors, but occasionally
6815, David Gunn was promoted to the rank of general, and given
displays a bull-headed stubbomness left over from his earliest military
command ofthe64thCommonwealthLegion.Thcinvasion of Gustaviv's
days.
Regret was the trial-by-fire of his ncwly reformed 64th.

--- PAGE 20 [OCR] ---
PROTOTYPEHORATIUS
As noted in the history of the Gustaviv's Regret campaign, the
3794th Strike Legion was field-testing a prototype of the Horatius
Location
Damage
Range
50mm
Turret
medium grav tank.For those wishing to recreate the battles of Operation
150mm
Distant Fire more accurately, the statistics and characteristics of thal
Turret
15
AP Laser.
Turret
protolypearegivep below
Vulcan-2
Turret
NA
Class:Medium GravTank
3/6Laser
Hull1
Cost:1.639.300
SMLM (2)
Hull2
10
Mass:276
Engine: 2000
If the prototype Horatius is being used, add the following special rule:
Thrust:6
If the player firing the 15Omm Gauss cannon rolls a 10 on his attack
Scenario Points: 17
(remember,a lo always misses),he mustroll IDlo again.If the resultof
Infantry Squad:No
the second roll is 9 or Io, the recoil of the cannon has jammed the turret.
Digging Cannons: Yes
locking it in the present position.Theturret facing may not be changed for
the duration of that scenario. Use a turret-facing counter from Inter
Shields:
Armor:
ceptor to mark that tank's current turret facing.
Front
70
Front
Right
Right
60
60
Left
Left
60
60
Stem
70
70
Stem
40
40
Boltom
Turret
70
INIG

--- PAGE 21 [OCR] ---
GGGG
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
CAMPAIGN RULES
GENERAL RULES
A tank may only fire at a fighter on the Interceptor board if that
fighter is in the same Interceptor hex as the tank.If so,the tank may paint
the enemy unit and fire all ofits weapons at it. The Base To-Hit Number
The 16 scenarios of Distant Fire can be played independently, but
for all tank weapons is 7.
are best when played in order as a campaign. When playing through the
campaign. players should keep records of the damage done to their ships,
INITIAL VELOCITIES
vehicles, and troops. This is especially truc of the capital ships of
Units may begin any scenario-at any velocity from O to 4 (Levia-
Leviathan.
than), O to SOT (lnterceptor), and O to maximum thrust (Centurion).
When playing the campaign, use the following rules:
INTEGRATINGLEVIATHAN,CENTURIONAND
PASSAGE OFTIMEBETWEENSCENARIOS
INTERCEPTOR
Passage of time between related batties is noted in the Special Rules
Two scenarios integrate all three Renegade Legion board games.
of the laterscenarios.Thc passage of time is important in some scenarios.
This is not an automatic procedure, because an Interceptor hex is one-
as it will allow crews to make limited repairs to their vesscls.
fifih the widith of a Leviathan hex and 75 tines the width of a Centurion
hex. Roughly speaking,25 Interceptor hexes represent one Leviathan
SCENARIO RESULTS AND SCORING
hex,and two Centurion maps representone Interceptor hex.In addition.
Be sure to note the result of each scenario. Some scenarios are
Leviathan tums last five minutes, while Interceptor and Centurion
related,and the outcome of one may affect the available forces in anothcr.
turns last just onc minute.
In addition,each scenario's result is worth campaign points to oneor both
Rules
players:
In general, all movement and combat is conducted and resolved
according to the rules printed in the Interceptor, Centurion, and Le.
CAMPAIGN POINTSTABLE
viathan rulebooks. Any exccptions are nolted in this section.
Type of Victoryam au . Campaign Points utin luf
Turn Sequence
Decisive il om
The tun sequence for integrated Leviathan/Interceptor/Centu-
Substantial
rion sccnarios is as follows:
Marginal
A.Leviathan Initiative Phase
Drawba
B. Leviathan Movemcnt Phase
C. Spotting Phase
D,Five full Centurion/Interceptor gamc tums
In some scenarios, it is possible for both sides to win campaign
I.Centurion Initiative Phase
points, After all scenarios have been completed, total the campaign
2. Centurion Movement Phase
points, The side having the highest total wins. Historically, Operation
3.Interceptor Initiative Phase
Distant Fire was a draw.
4. Interceptor Movemcnt Phase
S. Interceptor Combat Phase
DISTANTFIRE SPECIALRULES
6. Centurion Combat Phase
7. Centurion End Phase
ATTACKINGTANKS FROMTHEINTERCEPTOR BOARD
E. Leviathan Launch and Recovery Phase
In any scenario integrating Interceptor and Centurion, fighters on
F.Leviathan Combat Phase
the Interceptor board may attack tanks dropping from orbit or at LAF.
Boards
Interceptors may fire any normal weapon or ship-to-ship missile at a
The accompanying diagrams show how the three boards overlap. As
dropping or LAF tank. If such an attack is made, use the appropriatc table:
usual on the Leviathan board, hex row Ol xx is the ground, hex row O2xx
is the atmosphere, and hex row o3xx is the atmosphenc interface.
HITLOCATIONS WHILE DROPPING
The Interceptor board overlaps the bottom center of the Leviathan
Hit Location
Die Roll
board, between Leviathan Hexes 0612 (Map 1) and 0603 (Map 2) and
Bottom
1-3
below. As usual on the Interceptor board, hex row Olxx is thc ground
Attacked Side (right, left, front, stem)
47
hex rows 02xx-06xx are the atmosphere, and hex row 07xx is the
8-10
atmospheric interface.
CCANSI
On both the Leviathan and Interceptor boards, the Centurion
board is Hex 0114.
HITLOCATIONSATLAF
Die Roll
Hit Localion
1-5
Turret
6-10
Attackcd Side (rieht, left, front, stern)

--- PAGE 22 [OCR] ---
GGGGD
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
GGGGGGGGGG
INTERCEPTORMAP
26
0601
0614
0612
0613
060210603
05141
0501EI工
LEVIATHANMAP
0513
05020503
0512
17
0401
0412
0402110403
03111
0313
0314
0301
0312
0302
021310214
0212
020102020203
02.0
0103
INTERCEPTORMAPT
CENTURION MAP
Launching Fighters
That number of fighters appears on the Interceptor board.
in All Interecptors begin the scenario aboard their capital ships. In
Keep track of which fighters are from which Leviathan unit If a
order to deploy Interceplors, a player must launch a squadron (or larger)
fighter leaves the Interceptor board without retuming to the Leviathan
size unit of Interceptors from one of his capital ships in thc Leviathan
boardorifitisdestroycd,mark off6amorboxesonits Leviathan record
sheet.Ifa fighter is abletoretum totheLeviathan board,even ifitisbadly
Launch and Recovery Phase.
Todaunch fightcrs, the appropriate Leviathan fighter counter is
damaged,its Leviathan record sheet is unchangcd
placed in any hex the capital ship currently occupies. A capital ship may
Only fighters may move between the Leviathan and Interceptor
launch any or all of its fighters in one turn, No fighter counter being
boards. Units on one of these boards may not fire at units on the other
launched may move or attack until the next turm, but it may be altacked.
board. tHowever, units on either board may intcract with units on the
The next turn, it moves in the Leviathan Movement Phase.
Centurion board, per the integralion rules in the Leviathan and Cen-
Moving Between Leviathan and Interceptor Boards
turion rulebooks) Movement from the Leviathan board to the Inter
ceptor board is announced at the end of the Leviathan Movenent Phase.
If a fighter counterends its Leviathan movement in onc of the hexes
corresponding to the Interceptor board, the fighters it rcprcscnts may
Movement from the Interceptor board to the Leviathan board is an-
move lo the Interceptor board and begin acring during Interceptor
nounced at the end of the Interceptor Movement Phase.
phases, For example, a fighter counter that ends the Leviathan Move-
Fighter Ground Missions
ment Phase in Hex O603 on Leviathan Map2 may announce itis moving
Leviathan fighter units may be designated as ground-support mis-
to any of Hexes 2212-2214,2311-2314,2412-2414.2511-2514,or
sions. In this case,theentire unit's missile-attack factor bccomes O,its hard
2612-2614 on Interceptor Map 2.
points being loaded with ground-attack munitions. Fighter units wishing to
One Interceptor counter may be placed on the Interceptor board for
cngage in ground attacks must move from the Leviathan board to the
Interceptor board as described above, and thcn to the hex representing the
every six fighters in the Leviathan unit. (The Interceplor boardrepresents
just a slice of the three-dimensional action. The other fighters are engaged
Centurion board. If a player intends to allocate a unit of fighters to ground
support, he must decide what type of ground-attack -erdnance the unit is
elsewhere in the area.) For example, a squadron of six Gladius fighters
enters the Interceptor hexes. One Gladius Interceptor counter is placed
camying before play bcgins. No more than lO percent of the total ground-
altack ordnance carried by fighters can be of the Hell variety.
on one of the corresponding hexes on the Interceptor board. If the unit has
more than one type of fightcr, randomly select which fighter(s) appears.
If a damaged squadron moves from the Leviathan board to the
LEADERSHIPRATINGS
Interceptor board, roll 1D10, On a 1-5. a fighter appears on thc
Someforceshavemorethan one commanderlistcd.If so.usethe first
Interceptor board. On a 6-10, all surviving fighters in thal squadron are
commander's Leadership Rating when calculating the leadership differ
ence betwecn thc two forces. If a force's first commander loses commu-
engaged clscwhere.
If a damaged flight or group moves from the Leviathan board to the
nication or is himself lost,start using the Leadership Rating of thatforce's
Interceptor board, divide its remaining armor boxes by 6 and round up.
second commander.

--- PAGE 23 [OCR] ---
MULTIPLEMAPS
Scveral scenarios requirc three space miaps. The Leviathan and
FIRESUPPORTTABLE
Interceptor maps are identical,and so any three of those four maps may
Die Roll
Support Available
be used.
I naval fire mission equal toa 2522.5/15
laser bay (40 points)
NECESSARYSKILLSANDSTATS
IHell round
Most necessary skillsand SOT ratings are listed with the forces in the
3GLAD rounds
Game Set-Upofeach scenario.However.fighter units from capital ships
2HAFE rounds
occasionally transfer to an Interceptor board, where the resulting indi-
IGLAD round
vidualfighters nced skills.In suchcases,roll 1Dio,add I to the result,and
ADMround
find the corresponding skill levels on the Beginning Skill Level table
IHAFE round
(Interceptor,p.14).
2 HAFE rounds
9- Fighter mission, dive bombing
OFF-BOARD SUPPORT
uilajiu TOG1 Spiculum carrying 2Hell bombs
Centurion forces in several scenarios may request off-board sup
CW-1 Sringercarrying 2Hell bombs
port: artillery support, naval fire support, or even Thor stnikes. The
10
Fighter mission, strafing run
commander may only reguest one mission per turm, even if more than one
TOG-1MartiobarbuusAieNnstalehe
type of support is available, He does not have to requcest fighter strafings
CWlAvengeroOFciTEosbortobeutsond
or bombings: they arrive without being requested,if they are available in
the scenario.
Artillery Support
Thor missions are only available in Scenario 7. See Special Rules
In some scenarios,one or both sides may requcst an artillery support
and Reminders in Scenario 7 for how to reguest a Thor strike.
mission, but one is not always available. To determine if such support is
Commander Casualties
available when requested, roll IDlO and add the Leadership Rating of the
Make a note of which vehicle each comnander is in. If thar vehicle is
requesting officer.If the resul is S+,the artillery mission is available that
destroyed, or the commander is killed, that commander may no longer request
tum and is plotted normally,Thetype offireavailablemaybedetermined
support. However,remcmber that both sides begin with a second commander.
on the Artillery Suppori table.
PROTOTYPEHORATIUS
Scc PrototypeHoratius for statistics on theoniginaldesignofthe Horatius
ARTILLERYSUPPORT
medium grav tank.This is themodelused by the TOG forces during he invasion
ID10 +LR
Support Available
of Gustaviv's Regret. To beller simulate the actual action, use the protoype's
12
2 Rounds Smoke
stats and the special rule for locking the turret in position.
34
2 Rounds AMA
5-6
2 Rounds ADM
WITHDRAWAL
8-2
3 Rounds HAFE
In some scenarios, one entire side might be forced to withdraiw, In
9-10
2 Rounds GLAD
others,individual units might be forced to withdraw.In either case (force
2 Rounds Hell
or individual withdrawal).withdrawal begins during themovemcnt phase
of the following tum. The current tum may be completed normally
Beginning the following turn, any unit forced to withdraw must exit as
Naval Fire Support Missions
quickly as safely possible in the direction given by the scenario. Intercep.
In some scenarios,one or both sides may requesta naval fire support
mission, but one is not always available. To determine if such support is
torsmust apply SOTevery lum.Grav vehicles maygoto TFForLAF,but
are not required to do so, A withdrawing unit may still fire normally
available when requested,roll iDiO and add the Leadrship Rating of the
Force Withdrawal
requestingofficer.Ifthemodified roll totals l+,support will arrive in the
Some scenarios specify that an entire Centurion side might be
next tum, The availability roll is made during the end phasc. Only one
forced to withdraw, In thosc scenarios, each time a tank or APC is
mission may be requested per turn.
destroyed, the controlling player rolls IDio,and adds the total numberof
In scenarios where capital ships are actually on a Leviathan board
grav vehicles his side has lost to the result. When any one of these
(Scenarios 7 and 15), support fire of this type is not available unless there
modified die rolls totals 15+, that side is forced to withdraw.
is a capital ship in one of the Leviathan hexes that overlap thc Interceptor
Individual Withdrawal
boardIf available,naval fire support is plotted and resolvcd according to
Other scenarios specify that individual vehicles might be forced to
Naval Fire Support and Centurion (Leviathan, Pp. 33-34). Note that
withdraw. In those scenarios, whenever a Centurion vehicle takes
damage to its internal structure (other than damage to the ballistic
In other scenarios (Scenario4),the naval support is more abstract.To
protection), the controlling player must make a morale check for the
determine the type of mission available on the tum support is provided.
troops in the vehicle by rolling iDio, If the die roll is higher than the
roll 1DiO and consult the Fire Supporttable
troops' Morale Number (see Troop Morale table), that vchicle is forced
to withdraw, If there is no current commander, the Leadership Rating is
O. As always, a die roll of 10 meanis the skill check has failed.

--- PAGE 24 [OCR] ---
SGGGI
OPTIONALRULES
TROOPMORALETABLE
Morale Number
Troop Quality
The following rules are optional, and should not be used unless both
Elite
9 + Commander's Leadership Rating
players agree to use them. However, the scenarios in Distant Fire are
6 + Commander's Lcadership Rating
Regular
designed to use these rules. Playcrs should be very clear aboul which
3 + Commander's Leadership Rating
Green
optional rules will be used, if any, before beginning any scenario.
Notethat Initiativeand Interceptor Initiative overlap. Choosc onc
or the other rule: do not try to use both at the same time.
In scenarios where an individual capital ship might be forced to
withdraw, a morale chcck is made when more than half its Internal
INITIATIVE
Component Blocks have been destroyed.Anothcr morale check is required
(This rule is borrowed from BattleTech,) The player who lost the
whenever more blocks are destroyed. Roll IDio to make a morale chcck.
initiative chooses one unit and moves it first. Then the player who won thc
If the die roll is higher than 4 + the commander's Leadership Rating, that
initiativc moves one unit. Movermnent altermates until all units have been
ship is forccd to withdraw. Ifthe commander has been killed or has himself
moved.
withdrawn, any roll higher than a 4 forces the ship to withdraw.
If,priortoanypairof movements, oneplayerhas twiceas many units
In scenarios where an individual Leviathan fighter unit might be
left to move as the other player, that player moves two units,rather than
forced to withdraw,a morale check is made when more than halfiis armor
just one. (lf one player has three times as many units,he moves three, and
blocks are destroyed, Another morale check is required whencver more
so forth.) This mcans that the player who won the initiative moves at least
blocks are destroyed.Roll IDiO to rmake a morale check. If the die roll is
one ofhis units last. Any unit that has not becn destroyed may be"moved,
higher than 4 + the commander's Leadership Rating, that ship is forced
even if its move is to simply stay in place.
to withdraw. If the commander has been killed or has hinself withdrawn.
In Leviathan, this rule would be applied successively toeach size of
any roll higher than a 4 forces the ship to withdraw.
ship. just as the current initiative rule is applied.
In scenarios where an individual lnterceptor fighter might be forced
to withdraw,a morale check is made wheneverittakes pcrmanenldamage
INTERCEPTOR INITIATIVE
to its internal structure.main weapons, drives,or power plant, or when its
Determine an initiativenumberforeach fighter byrolling iDiOand
commander is killed. The controlling player must roll IDiO and add the
adding thc result to the fighter's SOT. The fighter with the lowest
number of hits to the affected system(s). If the result is 12+, that fighter
initiative numbermovesfirst.followed by thesecond lowest,and soforth.
must begin to withdraw, Fighters thal withdraw from the Interceptor
This gives a slight advantage to pilots with high-thrust fighters and
board are considered to have rctumed lo their mother ships once they
fighters with better pilots.
leave the Interceptor board.
CENTURION PLATOONMOVEMENT
To better reflect platoon integrity,altemate movement by platoons
rather than by individual units. All of the units assigned to a platoon are
moved, cven if the platoon has been reduced to a single vchicle. In order
to move a platoon out of sequcnce,a player must spend 3 Leadership
Advantages Points, regardless of the number of units in the platoon. This
rule improves the value of opportunity fire, causes the players to ma-
neuver their platoons as cohesive fighting units, and speeds up the game.
CORVETTES VS.FIGHTERS
In Interceptor, multiple fighters are not as effectivc against cor-
vettes as they should be, To better reflect the tactical supcriority of
fighters over corvettes, assume that the size of a corvette allows fighters
to better aim their shots. An attacking fighter may shift the actual amor-
column hit on a corvette,up one or down one,from therolled column. For
example, a hit in column 3 could be cenlered in columns 2, 3, or 4, as the
attacking player desires.
FIGHTERS VS.GROUND UNITS
To improve fighters chances against ground units, fighters may
mount a painting laser on a hard point This painting laser is only good
when attacking ground targets,
Infantry may not paint fighters.
IMPROVED HAFEROUNDS
Improved HAFE rounds attack the targethex and the surroundingsix
hexes.They cause as much damagetocachofthese seven hexes as nomal
HAFE rounds inflict on one hex.

--- PAGE 25 [OCR] ---
GGGG

--- PAGE 26 [OCR] ---
IGGGGGGGGOGGGGGGG
GGGGGGGGGGD
DEAFAND BLIND
For use with LEGIONNAIRE
UNEXPECTED RESISTANCE
SITUATION:19 OCTOBER 6818.T-DOPPLER
TRACKING STATION SC-C-344.53 LIGHT
The following is an excerpt from the post-mission debriefing of Optio
YEARSFROMGUSTAVIV'SREGRET
Francis Chriss, by Navarchos Robert Abbey,following the capture of T-
Doppler Tracking Station SC-C-334.
TOG invasion planners had hoped to catch the defenders of
Gustaviv's Regret by suprise. To that end, a series of commando-type
NAVARCHs ABBEY:Please continue,Oplio
assaults wcre planned along the invasion fleet's intended route, The
Orrio Chriss: Thank you, sir. As I was saying. our transport dropped out
object of theseraids was to captureintact the T-Doppler tracking stations.
of T-space at2345,almost thirty minutes ahead of schedule.Lucky for us.
which could detect and report the fleet's location and hcading.
ABBEy:Why is that?
The most cntical of these assaults was assigned to the elite Sevcn
Chkiss: Well,it took us awhileto make our approach to the station. Idon't
teenth Marine Strike Team under Optio Francis Chriss, Using a captured
know where they got that old Toledo, but it musthave been one step from
Toledo Class freighter, the Seventeenth MST approached Tracking
the junkyard. Then thc controller on the station gave us a hard timc about
Station SC-C-344, claiming to be a routine supply and replacement run.
docking. Somnebody really screwed up there. Once we secured the
Problems with the ship's sub-light drives and inaccurate intelligence
command center,wefound out thatthe supply run we were using for cover
delayed the mission for nearly twenty minutes. When Team 17 finally
wasn't due for another three weeks, That wasn't all.
began their assault, they met with unexpectedly stiff resistance from the
Once that dimwit let us dock, we began deploying according to the
station's crew. In the end, it took more than fifteen minutes to secure the
usual drill. Griff, that's Sergeant Griffin Kcy,took his leam to secure the
command center.Team 17's technicians were ableto prevent thc station 's
engineering section, while my team hit the command center, We 'd barely
automated systems from reporting the huge Tau-wave created by the
left the docking bay whcn we came under fire.
fleet's passage, with only seconds to spare. It required another fifteen
ABBEy:You cameunderfirc? That station was supposed to be only lightly
minules to secure the station's engincering section and crew quarters.
defended.
Even though Team 17 took 63 percentcasualtics,their mission was
CHRiss: Yeah, well, somebody forgot to tell that to the "wealthies."
a success. The fleet's cloak of secrecy remaincd intact.
Anyhow, Corporal Tomlinson bought it right off. A spike round hit him
in the bclly,and he just folded up like an old beer can.That's when all hell
broke loose. It took us ncarly ten minutes to fight our way up to the CC.
and another five to secure it. My chrono went off just about thc time the
las Comm threw down his gun, My tech-sergcants got on the P-Comm
and tracking boards about five scconds before the biggest Tau-wave I'd
ever seen hit the detectors. I figured that it had to be an invasion fleet.
ABBey: You have excellent powers of deduction, Optio, but please
continue with your report.
CHRiss: Yes, sir. Once we'd secured the command center, I called
Sergeant Key on the commlink. He said that he was too busy for idle chit.
chat, and that the engineering center hadn't been secured, I detailed one
of my remaining three men to stay and guard the prisoners, and went to
help Griff.lt took us anotherfiftecn minules torootthe Comms outofthcir
holes.
ABEy: And what were your total casualties?
CHRiss: Two dead, three wounded, two of those seriously
ABBE: That's 63 percent casualties, Optio,Are you always that careless
with Caesar's men?
CHriss: If thc Navarchos wil look at the casualry ratio, he will see that we
faced a total of twenty-two defenders, including the station's technical
staff. Ofthose twenty-two men, we killed nine and woundedeleven more.
That's an even four-to-one ratio,which I'd say is prctty good for that kind
ofop.
ABBev:Thank you for yourappraisal,Optio.However,that decision isn't
yours to make, it is mine.

--- PAGE 27 [OCR] ---
GAME SET-UP
Each Marine is wearing a Marine Combat Suit, and is amed with an
This scenario uses Legionnaire rules.
Akley laserniflewhichis poweredoff the suit,twoanti-personnel grenades,
The game begins after Team 17's ship has docked at the station. The
and a dagger. In addition, one Marine is carrying an Anthony grenade
Commonwealth player should secretly record the location of his forces.
launcher, loaded with two anti-personnel and two snioke grenades.
Of the 22 mcn available lo him, five must be placed on the bridge, and
If both players agree to modify attributes and skills, the Marines may
three must be placed in the Communications Equipment and Computer
be modified to the following extent:
room on the Enginccring Deck.The balance ofhis forces may bedeployed
WodiedAllributes
as he sees fit,though no more than two may be placed in any one room or
Roll iDio for each attributc, and consult thc Attribute Modifica-
tions table.
corridor.
The game begins as the large bay hatch on Deck 2 opens. The TOG
ship has mated with this hatch so that Team 17's troops can enter all along
ATTRIBUEMODIFIOATIONSTABLE
its nine-meter length. Thc other two cxlenor hatches are of no use in this
Roll
Result
scenario because none of the TOG or Commonwealth troops are currently
Add 2 to attribute bashiltum st rent war
wearing oxygen-equipped suits.
2-3
Add 1 to attnbule
nitioMm4-7.u tAttribute is unchanged
TOG FORCES
89
Subtract I from atiribute
Seventecnth Marine Strike Team, consisting of eight Marincs.
10
Subtract 2 from attribute
ntabnibon
For this scenario,assume thal all of the Marines have the following
altributes and skills.
Attributes:
Modified Skills
AGCHCNDXIQLK
 SP
ST
Fourteen levels of skill are listed for cach Marine.Each may have IS
1410F164152131116
14
levels of skill, No current skill may be improved. No new skill may be
Skills: Knife/KnifeThrowing:2,Laser Firearms: 3, Projcctile Weapons:
3, Security Tcch: 2, Support Weapons: 2, Zero-G Operations:2
eliminated.
DECK 1:ENGINEERING
1HEX=1METER
Communications Equipment
Shield
and Computer
Generator
T-Doppler
Equiptment
Sensor
Eguipment
Elevator
Life
Support
Controls
Stairs
Storage and Repair
Power Reactors
and
Conversion
Eguipment

--- PAGE 28 [OCR] ---
GGGG
GGG
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
SPECLAL RULES
The crcw of T-Doppler Tracking Station SC-C-344,consisting of
Alert Status and Surprise
22 men.
When the game begins, the station is noton alert status.No crewman
Forthc purposes of this scenario,assume thateach ofthe station crew
may ready a weapon until he realizes the station is under attack, either
because he recognizes an enemy or because the alert sounds, Any
members has the following attributes and skills:
crewman who recognizes an enemy before the alert sounds or during the
Atiributes:
CHCNDXIQLKSPST
round in which the alert sounds is surprised for one round (Legionnaire,
AG
12101411131014012
p. 100).
Skills: Communications (P-Comm): 2, Projectile Firearms: 2, Security
The alert may be sounded by any crew member who recognizes an
enemy as soon as he is allowed to take an action. A Marine may prevent
Tech:2.Zero-G Operations:1
Each crew member is wearing a light infantry suit, and is carrying a
a crewman from sounding the alert with a successful preemptive strike
Tektara spike carbine with six reloads.
that knocks the crewman unconscious, Sounding the alert is a normal
If both players agree to modifying attributes and skills, the station
action and may be combined with a character's movement, but not with
crew may be modified to the following extent:
ariy other action.
A character in an area adjacent to onc where firearms are being
Modified Attributes
Roll 1Dlo for each attribute, and consult the Attribute Modilica-
discharged, and on the same deck, may sound the alert after one round of
tions table.
surprise.
Until the alert has becn sounded, the Commonwealth player may not
Modinied Skilis
move his troops. Once the alert has been given, he may move his troops
Seven levelsof skillarc listed foreach crewmember.Each may have
eight levels of skill. No current skill may be improved. No new skill may
freely.
be given more than two levels. Any current skill may be lowered or
Doors
Going through any door takes a full round, The character ends one
eliminaled.
round adjacent to.the-door, moves past the door in the next round, and
begins the third round adjacent to the far side of the door. He is exposed
GAMELENGTH
to fire from both directions during the round he is going through the door.
Cornbat continues until one side or the other is in sole possession of
thc station.
Doors cannot be locked.
DECK2:ENLISTEDQUARTERS
1HEXE1METER
Crew
Crew
Crew
Crew
Crew
Personal
Storage
Quarters
Quarters
Quarters
Quarters
Quarters
(twotoaroom)
Elevator
Crew
Crew
Crew
Crew
Quarters
Quarters
Quarters
LQuarters
Stairs
Sick Bay
Mess Hall and
Docking Bay
Commons Area
Galley and
One-Man
Food Storage
Shuttle
(unarmed)

--- PAGE 29 [OCR] ---
Elevator and Stairs
room.) During the next round, one Marine, in either room, must make a
The elevator takes one full round to move from one deck of the
successful Communications, P-Comm: IQ (2) skill check, If there is
station to the ncxt. It bcgins on the top deck, Deck 3. While in the elevator.
combat on the bridge or in the computer room anytime during this next
characters may take any action they wish, so long as it is possible inside
round, the task becomes an IQ (3) skill check. if there is combat in both
areas,it becomies an IQ (4) skill check.F
the elevator.Next to the elevator is an cnclosed stairwell. It takes two full
rounds to climb one level of stairs. A character climbing stairs may
If the Marincs disable the autormatic system but are then defeated by
perform no other action.
the station 's crewmen, a crewman immediately sends a T-Doppler report
Distress Call
to the Gustaviv's Rcgret system.
After the alert has been triggered, the Commonwealth player may
Explosives
transmit a distress call, To do so, he must have at least two conscious men
The station cannot be disabled with either explosives or explosive
on the bridge and one in the engineering computer room. Sending a
deconpression.
distress call takes three rounds and requires a successful Communica-
tions, p-Comm: IQ (2) skill check during the third round. If there is
VICTORY CONDITIONS
combat on the bridge or in the computer room anytime during the three
The TOG player must sccurc the tracking station before the fleel
rounds,the task bccomes an IO (3) skill check.If there is combat in both
cones through, and prevent a distress call from being sent. The Com-
areas, it becomes an IQ (4) skill check. The Commonwealth player
decides which of the three characters makes the check, If unsuccessful.
the Commonwealth player may try again, kecping in mind that each
TOG Decisive Victory: No T-Doppler repont is sent and no distress
attempt takes thrce rounds to complete.
call is sent.
Automatic T-Doppler Signal
TOG Marginal Victory: No T-Doppler report is sent, but a distress
The TOG fleel passes within range of the station in Round 20. The
call is sent.
station automatically notifies the next station, which is in the Gustaviv
Commonwealth Marginal Victory: No T-Doppler report is sent
systen, if the Marines have not disabled the automated system before the
but a distress call is sent.
cnd of Round 20. To disable the automatic system, the Marincs must bc
Comimonwealth Decisive Victory: A T-Doppler report is sent to
in sole posscssion of both the bridge and the engineering computer room
the Gustaviv 's Regrel system.
at the end of a round, (Thcrc may be no conscious crewmen in either
DECK3:CONTROLDECK
1HEX1METER
Officer's
Officer's
Quarters
Quarters
Officer's
Officer's
Quarters
Quarters
Officer'sMess
Elevator
Entertainment
Center
Stairs
Briefing and
Conference Room
Bridgeand
Communication Center
Captain's Quarters

--- PAGE 30 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGD
INVASION
For use with LEVIATHAN
D-DAYGUSTAVIV'SREGRET
SITUATION:22 OCTOBER6818. GUSTAVIV
SYSTEM
-Excepted fromthe personal log ofAdmiral Lucius Oetaeus Longinius.
Commander, Operation Distant Fire
When Task Force Temerarius dropped out of T-space into the
Gustaviv's Regtet system, the lash of their Tau-wave was the first
Wedropped outof T-spaceexactlywhere we were supposcd to.Ican
indication the Commonwealth defenders had of the enemy fleet's pres-
remcmber hoping at the time that the Marine strike teams had silenced all
ence.Responding quickly. Commodore Del a'v organized his forces and
the tracking stations we passed on the way here. They must have,because
went to meet the invaders.
we caught the Commonwealth defense fleet napping.I can only imagine
Opening fireatextreme rangc,the Commonwealth fleet managed to
what the techs manning their scanning stations must have thought when
goad Commodore Joseph Kuroda into abandoning the usual doctrine of
they saw our Tau-wave on their detectors.
screening transports with warships. Leaving only a frigate and a pair of
To their credit, the Comms did get their ships into line more quickly
destroyers to protect the vulnerabletransports,Kuroda swung his fleetout
than I thought possible. Intelligence told us that the 43120th had gotten
of line and charged into the Cormmonwealth formation. In the initial
a new commander,a Bug.Inever would have believed that human sailors
exchange of fire, three heavy spinal-mount rounds slammed into the
would respond so well to commands given by a Xeno, if I hadn't seen it
Exeter Class destroyer Seawitch, breaking her back. For a few brief
with my own eyes. He must have a Human exec they trust.
moments, all firing ceased, as awestruck sailors watched the five-hun.
We were still at about 70 kilometers when the enemy opened fire.
dred-thousand-ton ship crumpleand die.Then,as ifby signal,thefighting
A couple of spinal-mount rounds hitour shiclds, but mostmissed us clean.
resumed
I thought that they wcre trying to fire past us at the transports until the
For overthree hours the flccts sluggcd it out in a running battle from
Temerarius took a hit.
which no ship escaped undamaged. In the cnd, cnough transports got
That seemed to be enough for Kuroda. He ordered the fleet's
through the blockade to drop their troops on Gustaviv's Regret. The
warships lo swing around and engagc the defenders, leaving only the
battered Cornmonwealth fleet withdrew to the comparative safety of che
Firestorm, Perserare. and Arris to cover the Iransports. I'll never un-
asteroid belt to make repairs and await their ncxt cngagement with the
derstand why that man does some ofthe things he does. Standard doctrine
invaders.
calls for the warships to screen the transports, but he ran off, leaving them
almost naked.
Modt of thc Commonwealth warships ignored us and closed on the
transporis, I thought that we were going to lose more than we did in that
initial pass. Fortunately, Kuroda managed to pull the fleet around and
engage the Comms at point-blank rangc. Onc of their destroyers, the
Seawitch.just folded up like a child's toy.Idon't know what happened to
her,whether we poured somuchfireinto her that she justcollapsed,or her
spinal mount overloaded and blew, or whal, but I've never seen anything
like it, and nevcr want to again.
After that,the batile lost all semblancc oftactics and fonnation.The
Commonwealth flect broke up.Their cruisers and frigates closed with our
warships, while their fighters and remaining destroycrs went after the
transports. Those bug-lovers fought us every centimeter of the way. It
seemed that the more ships they lost, the more determined they were to
take us with them. I didn 't see it myself, but Oren Nicholson, captain of
the Percussor, told me that he watched an entire squadron of Fluttering
Perais ram one ot the transports.
I find it amazing that after all these years, the Commonwcalth still
hates us so much that they'd gladly die to kill just a few of us.

--- PAGE 31 [OCR] ---
UUG
GAME SET-UP
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
This scenario requires the Leviathan rules.
43120th Defense Sguadron
Lay out the maps as illustrated. The planet surface is hex row Olxx
Fleet Captain De! a'v,Commander. Filw
on Map 1.
Leadership Raling:5
RLS Agic,a Vitak Class cruiser
RLs Caringorm, a Carrhage Class cruiser ita Luliu lo Jumt qu5>
MAP2
1Avenger flight
I Flurtering Petal flight
1 Guardian flight
RLSTasker.aValiant Class frigateTsoaaceiD2aa
2 Cheetah squadrons
2 Hawk squadrons
I Fluttering Petal flight
RLS Red Tail, an Exeter Class destroyer  l ot
2 Cheetah squadrons
2 Guardian squadrons
RLS Seawitch, an Exeter Class desiroyer
1 Penetrator flight
MAP 1
RLS Duchess Katherine,an Ajax Class destroyer
1 Avenger squadron
Ifthe Commonwealth scored a Marginal Victory in Scenariol,it had
The TOG player sets up first. He places his warships on the board
time to scramble the following additional Marine support for this battle.
within five hexes of the right edge, before Turn I. His transports enter
1 Defiam flight
from the same edge during the movement phase of Tum 2.
The Commonwealth playerenters the top edge of Map I, during thc
If the Commonwealth scored a Decisive Victoryin Scenanio litalso
movement phase of Turn 1.
had time to scramble additional suppon from an out system Apollo Class
camier. Along with the Defianr flight, the following Interceptors appcar.
TOG FORCES
1 Gaul flight
Task Force Temerarius, 20203lst Harasser Squadron
I Peacekeeper flight
Commodore Joseph Kuroda, Commander
I Vertura flight
Laadership Rating:5
INS Temerarius,a Mars Class battleship
Historical Force
2 Gladius squadrons
Gustaviv's. Regret received no warning or distress call, and so the
2 Spicu/um squadrons
additional fighters were not available
I Saxum squadron
I Defensor squadron
GAMELENGTH
INs Flaminns,a Syracuse Class cruiser
Combat continues until one side has fulfilled its victory conditions
1 Verutum flight
1 Pilum flight
SPECIALRULES
IMartiobarbulus flight
Transports
INS Blac Prince,a Syracuse Class cruiser
Use any type of one-hex, non-warship, non-fighter unit markers to
I Verwrwm flight
represent the position and facing of the transports. (Fighter counters from
1 Marriobarbulus flight
Interceptor are well suited to this purpose.)
I Gladius nighi
In order to drop its troops, a transport must enter any hex of the
INS Percussor,a Bantha Class fngate
interface zone and decelerate to a full stop,with its bow facing the planet
I Spicuum flight
(direction 5 or 6).Atransportmust remain in thatposition forone full tun
I Gladius flight
after it arrives, while its troops disembark. Troops are dropped following
INS Firestorm,a Banrha Class frigate
combat of the motionless tum. Dropped troops do notappear on the board
2 Sica flights
and cannot be damaged in this scenario. Ships dropping troops are
INS Persecare,a Serpens Class destroyer
assumed to be using enough thrust to maintain station-keeping, and so
1 Pilum flight
their orbits will not decay.
INS Ais,a Serpens Class destroyer
Ships engaged in dropping troops may not fire their forward-facing
I'Saxum light
6 Carrus Class transports (See Special Rules below for specifications)
The only way to prevent a transport from deploying its troops is to
destroy the transport before it can do so.

--- PAGE 32 [OCR] ---
GGG
Use the Victory Points table to determine how many victory points
Gravity Well
Any unpowered ship that cnters the gravity well (hex row 13xx and
cach side has accumulated.
below on Map I) immediately will be trapped in a decaying orbit. Sce the
Leviathan rules, p. 32, for details on the effects of the gravity well.
VICTORY POINTSTABLE
Record Keeping
Ships Destroved
Victory Points
Keep track of which ships are destroyed and what damage has been
Battleship
4 points
done to the ships that survivc. Surviving units will come into play in later
Cruiser
3 points
scenanos.
Frigate
2 points
Destrover -
I point
CARRUSCLASSTRANSPORT
Transport (loaded)
4 points
Size:
I hex
Transport (empty)
5 point
Thrust:
2 (3 if no weapon fires in the turn)
Fighter Flight
.3 point
I (all sides)
Shield:
Fighter Squadron
.I point
Armor:
20 (all sides)
Each shipload of troops dropped
4points
Type
Location
Range
7-20
2-3
46
Add upthe total victory points accrued by the Commonwealth playcr,and
10 7.5/25 laser bay
subtract them from those accrued by the TOG player.Use thetable below
to determine who won.
107.5/25laser bay
1015/10 laser bay
1015/10 laserbay
OUTCOMETABLE
Victory Points
Outcome
VICTORY CONDITIONS
24
TOG Decisive Victory
The TOG player must maneuver his transports into the interface and
10 to 23.9
TOG Substantial Victory
drop.the troops.
3to9.9
TOG Marginal Victory
The Commonwealth player must prevent the TOG player from
2.9to 2.9
Draw
dropping his fleet to the surface.
E-0166-
Commonwealth Marginal Victory
Both players should also attempt to inflict as much damage on the
23.9to10
Commonwealth Substantial Victory
enemy fleet as possible.
-24 and less
Commonwealth Decisive Victory

--- PAGE 33 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
RODE THE SIX HUNDRED
For use with INTERCEPTOR and CENTURION
ohuinmOanolgsnmlalstbdiod
ELEVATORTO HEL
SITUATION:22 OCTOBER6818.GUSTAVIV'S
REGRET
abToaddbidwnaodg
-ExcerptfromDustand FireTheBantleforGustawy s RegretCaptain
George Anders, CAF (retired). New Janos Publishing Company, 18
Once the TOG invasion fleet ran past the Comnonwealthblockade.
June 6825.Used by pemission.
the transports-began deploying their ground troops over the north polar
region ofGustaviv's Regret.Elements of the5012th Marine Pursuit Wing
Civilians haveno idea what a combat dropis like.Sure,they see them
engaged the desccnding vehicles of the 3794th Strike Legion, hoping to
on the Tri-Dees all the time, but there is no way to show the purc terror a
damage or destroy as many of the tanks and APCs as possible before the
man experiences when he looks out of a gaping bay door and sees nothing
invaders hit theground,s mimo.vog misgonbimyoigob ulg DoT
but empty space and the planet far below.
On the ground, Brigadier General Conistance Burke had ordered her
Now.I've made combat drops on at lcast a dozen worlds.and I made
troops not to oppose the landings, fearing that the initial assault would be
a fair number of practice drops on Gustaviy s Regret bcfore the Toggies
far too strong for the relatively small 64th Commonwcalth Legion.
arrived, so I have a fair idea what those poor devils went through when
However,because ofa breakdown in communications,the Eighth Baltal-
they left their transports.
ion, stationed north of Fog Bound,did not receive the orders and engaged
The first thing that happens is all the lights in the troop bay goout and
the invaders.
are replaccd by these dim red glow-bats they call battle lanterns. That's
The3794th,supported by elements of the Fourth Close Air Suppor
the signal for everybody to button-up. The TCs seal up their vehicles and
Squadron,sccured a planethead,butonlyafterfightingasharpand bloody
report to their platoon leader, who reports to the company commander,
battle with the 8/4th
who reports to.... who reports to.... and so on. Eventually the report gets
to the drop officer on the bridge, He reports to the ship's captain that
everybody's ready to go. Then the real fun starts.
The captain aims thc ship straighi into the center of the planet and
shuts off his drives. No words can describe the eerie feeling you get when
you hear the hum of the engines quit, The ship is operating on station-
keeping thrusters alone, and God help you if one of them has been hit.
Once the ship is in position. the dropofficer opens the bay doors. The
TCs ouder the tank's gravs fired up, and out you go, Unless you've
managed to catch the enemy by surprise (which is extremely rare, no
matter what you see in Tri-Dee), that s whcn the fighters close in, You'd
think that a 280-ton tank would have little to fear from a 125-ton fighter.
bul you'd be wrong. You see, a tank is larger, slower, and has shorter-
ranged weapons than any tighter.Those ships have to get real close before
there's a prayer ofhiting them.and they re usually too smartfor that.And
even if you do danagc them, it doesn't matter. They 're going back to a
nice safe carrier or basc-you're going to hell. Like I said, you almost
never catch the enemy by surprisc. Once his fighiers get done mauling
you. you've got to face his tanks and pcds, and that's a whole other mess.
  d
33

--- PAGE 34 [OCR] ---
OGGGG
HUHX
Fourth Close Air Support Squadron
GAME SET-UP
This is the first of the integrated scenarios of Distant Fire,requiring
Pluiarchos Magda Nix Commander
both the Interceptor and Centurion rules to play.
Gladius: Piloting 6. Gumnery 5, SOT 6 (Pluiarchos Nix)
Set up the Centurion and Interceptor boards as illustrated. The
Gladius:Pilofing5.Gunnery 4,SOT6
Commonwealth player secretly records the location, velocity,and facing
Sica: Piloting 5,Gunnery 5, SOT6
CITEATOBO HE
of his tanks, APCs, and any dismounted infantry on the Centurion board.
Sicd, Piloting 5, Gunnery 4, SOT6
The TOG player sccretly records in which hexes of the Centurion board
Pilum: Piloting 5,Gunnery 4.SOT 6
heintends to landeach of his gray units, and its facing when it rcachcs that
Pilum; Piloting 5.Gunnery 4.SOT 6
board Both TOG and Commonwealth players secretly record the loca-
tion, beginning velocity, and facing of each of their Interceptors. They
COMMONWEALTH FORCES
must cach deploy two Interceptors on each of the Interceptor maps. No
Fifth Company,8/64th Commonwealth Legion
Interceptor may begin the game on Map 2 below hex row O9xx.
Captain Willis Kintowski, Commander
Once all locations, velocitics, and facings have been recorded, the
Leadership Rating:3
TOG player deploys his dropping grav units anywhere within the pre-
Troop Quality: Regular
scribed hexes. Each one is facing direction 5 or6, and has vclocity 1. (This
Ist Medium Grav Armor Platoon
is a controlled drop, and so they will maintain velocity  while on the
3 Liberator medium gray tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
Interceptor board.) When the grav units have been placed,all other units
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
are then placed on the boards. nmummt.
3 bouncc infantry squads w/TVLGs
MAP 1
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs (normally transported on
the Liberators)
Elements of First Company,Fog Bound Militia Regiment
Scrgcant Major Adarna Bheng, Corrirmander
Leadership Rating:3
Troop Quality:Regular
3rd Light Grav Armor Platoon
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
Elements of Soi2th Marine Pursuit Wing
Wing Commander Wilson Terrel, Commander
Ist Squadron, Alpha Flight
Flutterine Petal: Piloring 6, Gunnery 6., SOT 6(Wing Commander
MAP3
MAP4
MAP2
Terrel)
TOG FORCES
Flurtering Petal: Piloting 5,Gunery 4.SOT5
Third Century, 2/3794th Strike Legion
Avenger:Piloring5,Gunnery4.SOT6
Avenger:Piloting 5,Gunnery 5,SOT6
Centurion Fredrick Halstead, Commander
Leadership Raling:3
Penetrator: Piloring 4.Gunneny 3. SOT 6
Troop Quality:Regular
PenetratorPiloting 5,Gumnery 4, SOT6
1st Heavy Grav Armor Platoon (in Hexes 0406-0409)
3 Trajan hcavy gray tanks
GAMELENGTH
Ist Medium Grav Armor Platoon (in Hexes 0704 0710)
Combat continues until onc side or the other has destroyed the
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
enemy's ground forces. Once the last ground unit on one side is destroyed,
the game is over at the end of that tum, regardless of how many
Fourth Century,2/3794th StrikeLegion
Interceptors are left.
Centurion Desius llusi, Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
SPECIAL RULES
Troop Quality: Regular
Dropping Tanks
2nd Medium Grav Armor Platoon (in Hexes 0306 0308)
Note Distant Fire Special Rule: Altacking Tanks from the
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
Interceptor Board.
Ist Armored Infantry Platoon (in Hexes 0605-0610)
Grav tanks on the Interceptor board must move directly toward the
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
Centurion Hex (07o1). No mancuvering is possible. Grav tanks on the
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Interceptor board move during the Interceptor movemcnt phase,at one
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon (in Hexes 0505-0509)
hex per turn.
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
3 bounce infantry sguads w/mortars

--- PAGE 35 [OCR] ---
When a dropping grav tank moves from Interceptor Hex 0207 or
Vulcan anti-missile systems mounted on grav tanks function nor-
0208 to Hex 0io7 take it from thc Interceptor board to the Centurion
mally against Interceptor missiles.
board. Grav tanks arrive on the Centurion board in LAF mode, and can
still be targcted by Interceptors while in that mode, When each tank
VICTORY CONDITIONS
arrives on thc Centurion board, place it in the hex selected for it at the
TOG Decisive Victory: All Commonwealth grav vehicles de
beginning of the game, then roll iDlo. If the resulting number is 7 or less.
stroyed. Eleven or more TOG ground units survive.
the tank has arrived in that hex, otherwise,it scatters like artillery. Tanks
TOG Substantial Victory: All Commonwcalth grav vehicles de-
that scattcr off the board are considered lost.
stroyed. Seven to ten TOG ground units survive.
Inertia inhibitors slow a dropping tank when it nears the ground.
TOG Marginal Victory: All Commonwealth grav vehicles de-
When a dropping tank moves from the Interceptor board to the Cen-
siroyed Two to six TOG ground units survive.
turion board, its velocity at the beginning of the next turn Cbefore
Draw: All enemy ground units destroyed.One or no friendly ground
acceleration is applicd)is 15.
units survive.
Interceptor Missiles
Commonwealth Marginal Victory: All TOG grav vehicles de-
Intcrceptors may carry any missile, bomb,and pod mix they choose
stroyed, Two to four Commonwealth ground units survive.
on their hard points.
Commonwealth Substantial Victory: All TOG gray vehicles de-
Hell, GLAD and HAFE ordnance,normally used for ground altack,
stroyed. Five to nine Commonwealth units survive.
may be carmied by the Interceptors for use against targets on the Centu-
Commonwealth Decisive Victory: All TOG grav vehicles de-
rion board, but may not be fired at targets on the Interceptor board.
stroycd. Ten or more Commonwealth ground units survive.

--- PAGE 36 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
SHAKERSSHAKEN
-H HF   (V  
For use with CENTURION. Also uses Interceptor and Leviathan.
COBALT BLUE-BLOOD RED
SITUATION:26OCTOBER6818.TROCOBOLT
MININGFACILITY27.NORTHOFBARTON'S
ExcerptfromDellandsGuidetotheOrionArm,Overlord Press,Terra
FIRE SEA
6759
wudasoldoitnn
After consolidating their positions in Gustaviv's Regret's north
Barton's Fire Sea is an unusual geologic phenomcnon, Located in
polar region, the 3794th Strike Legion began moving south in a series of
the mountains westof the Sea of Tears, the Fire Sea is a deep basin ringed
quick strikes. One of these attacks was aimed at capttring the trocobolt
by several large, active volcanoes, Most of the lava produced by these
mines in the area northwest of Barton's Fire Sea. The task was assigned
volcanoes flows down their slopes and into the basin,where it collects in
to the Fourth Cohon,under the command of Centurion Maximus Lewis
a titanic pool until it runs off into an underground cavem some fifty
Dinantti.
kilomcters to the southwest. The Fire Sea is visible from space as an angry
As the 4/3794th entered the rugged terrain surrounding the Fire Sea,
red weal on thc planet's surface
they were met by elements of the 3/64th Commonwealth Legion under
Because of the degrec and nature of the volcanic activity in the arca
Major D.Gordon Barlow.Barlow ordered his light armortoclose with the
of the Fire Sea, vast deposits of trocobolt have been formed, as vulca-
invaders as rapidly as possible, and "keep them entertained" while the
nization brings the rare element up from the depths of the planet, spews
main body ran around the 4/3794th's flank.
it forth, and forms pockets.
Misunderstood orders and simple bad leadership, elements that
would come to characterize the Commonwealth's initial defense of
Entry,dated 18October6818,inthejoumalof Corporal MulliganFinn.
Gustaviy's Regret, sent the Third Light Armored Platoon racing ahead of
Second Platoon, Second Company,3/64th Commonwealth Legion.
the main body to engage the advancing enemy tanks at close range
Accurate long-range fire from Trajan heavy grav tanks destroyed the tiny
One of the most dismal posts a man can draw is guarding the
Wolverines and Chktal Nors before most of the light tanks could get
trocobolt mines next to the Fire Sca.It's hot,dusty, and smoky.Ifitrains.
within effective weapon range. Even as the last shots were being fired in
it s more humid than a tropical rain forest. The ash and grit get into
the slaughtcr of the light tanks, the Commonwealth main body slammed
cverything: your clothes, your tank, your food. We spend more time
into the exposed flank ofthe TOG formation.Swiftly,the battle tumed in
sweeping thc dust out ofourtanks than doing anything elsc.When we first
favor of the 3/64th,and the TOG column was driven back over much of
got here, it was a big joke to us. Now, it's a big pain in the neck. The
the ground covered in the engagement with the light tanks. Just when it
Sergeant-Major seems to think if he keeps us busy, we'll forget aboutour
seemed that the Commonwealth legions might score an early victory
problems. Boy, is he wrong! Drills and exercises just make things worse.
against the3794th,Major Barlow hesitated.That instantofhesitation was
I wish hc'd let us alone.
all that Centurion Maximus Dinantti needed. Within moments of
Then there 's the miners. A more boring bunch of moles than the Fire
Barlow's halt, a firestorm of heavy artillery shells fell on the Common-
Sea Mining Company you'll nevcr want to meet. All the diggers want to
wealth positions, As the tanks tried to withdraw, they were strafed and
talk about is booze, down time, and their last job, The managers, on the
bombed by enemy fighters.At that momcnt,the 3/6Ath fell apart and ran.
other hand, won't talk about anything except thcir profit margin,and how
leaving the mining communities they were supposcd to prolectopen to the
the miners are strangling their business.
TOG troops.
Ialmost wish TOG would invade us, At least it'd give us something
ditterent to do.

--- PAGE 37 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGL
GGGG
HHOA2CAM
COMMONWEALTH FORCES
GAME SET-UP
Second Company,3/64th Commonwealth Legion
This scenario uses the Centurion rules. Interceptor and Leviathan
Captain Eleanor Stevis, Commander
rules may come into play in the event of naval or air-fire suppont missions.
Leadership Rating: 4
Lay out the maps as illustrated.
Troop Quality: Regular
CTOG forces enter the north edge of Map I during the movement
Ist Medium Grav Amor Platoon
phase of Tum I.
The Commonwealth 2/3/64th cnters the south edge of Map 4 during
3 Liberator medium grav tanks
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
the movement phase of Turn 1.
The Commonwealth 3/3/64th cnters the east edge of Map 4 during
3 Liberator medium grav tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
the movement phase of Turn 5.
3 Spartius medium gray APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Third Company.3/64th Commonwealth Legion.
Sergeant-Major James O'Brien, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
MAP1
Troop Quality: Elite
Elements of the 3rd Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
GAMELENGTH
The fighting continues until one side or the other is forccd to
withdraw.
SPECLAL RULES
Force Withdrawal
MAP4
Beginning on Turn 5, either side may be forced to withdraw (see
Distant Fire Special Rule: Withdrawal:Force Withdrawal). If so,the
controlling player must move all his forces off the same edge from which
he entered.
Fire Support Missions
Each side has available a total of three naval fire support missions.
See Distant Fire Speclal Rule: Off-Board Support: Naval Fire Sup
TOG FORCES
port Missions.
Third Century, 4/3794th Strike Legion
Centurion Sheila Davies,Commander
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Leadership Rating:4
Decisive Victory, either side: Eneny forced to withdraw, own
Troop Quality:Regular
force suffers up to three vehicles destroyed.
Ist Medium Gray Armor Platoon
Substantial Victory, either side: Enemy forced to withdraw,own
3 Horatius medium gray tanks
force suffers four to six vehicles destroyed.
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
Marginal Victory,either side: Enemy forced to withdraw, own
3 Horatius medium gray tanks
force suffers seven or more (but not all) vehicles destroyed.
3rd Anmored Infantry Platoon
Draw: Both sides lose all yehicles or are forced to withdraw.
3 Lupis light grav APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Fifth Century,4/3794th StrikeLegion
Centurion Marco Florenz, Commander
Leadership Rating:3
Troop Quality:Regular
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Plaloon
3 Trajan heavy grav tanks
2nd Amored Infantry Platoon
3Romulus medium gray APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/mortars

--- PAGE 38 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGD
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
FOGBOUNDMASSACRE
For use with CENTURION
STREET FIGHTING
SITUATION:29OCTOBER6818.FOGBOUND
Excerpt from Modern Warfare,ALayian'sOverview,Hay Cooper
In an attempt to capture the Commonwealth basethere,the 4/3794th
Orion Press.6812.
launched an assault on Fog Bound in the early morning hours of 29
October. They were met by elements of the 2/64th Commonwealth
One of the mostdifficulttypes ofcombatfaced by the modem soldicr
Legion in the open country surrounding the city. With little effort, the
is the savage and brutal fighting that goes on in the narrow confines of city
TOG forces pushed the 2/64th back into the streets of Fog Bound, where
they were forced to root out the Commonwealth treops, building by
strects.
Urban combat is hard on tankers, because city streets become fire
building and street by street.
lanes and readymade tank traps, and infantrymen can hide unseen until
After a day-long battle, the 4/3794th secured both the city and the
they fire, usually at point-blank range. For the sarne infantrymen, streets
base. Casualties were abnormally high on both sides because of the nature
become impossibly wide killing grounds where AP lasers and beehive
of urban warfare.
Gauss rounds wait to cut them down beforc thcy've gone five melers.
In a fit of rage overthe near-destruction of his command atthe hands
Buildings become mazes of death, where the enemy may be hiding in the
of the 2/64th Centurion Maximus David Mnel ordered the Common-
very next room, Quarter is rarely asked, and never given. Often, the
wealth prisoners executed. For the massacre of helpless prisoners, most
wounded are left in the comparative safety of a building, only to be killed
of them wounded, Centurion Maximus Mnel was branded a war criminal.
when the building is later destroyed. The risk of a structure bcing sct
and a price was placed on his head.
ablaze by missile or laser fire is very real, Many soldiers have lost their
lives, either trapped in a buming building, or cut down by the enemy as
they flee the flames.
Fighting in a city concentrates all the horrors of war into a single
microcosm of blood and dying.

--- PAGE 39 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGOGGGGGGGGGO
TOIHAHO
GAME SET-UP
Second Company, Fog Bound Militia Regiment
This scenario requires Centurion rules.
Captain Timothy Owen, Commander
Lay out the maps as illustrated. All hill hexes are considered open
Leadership Rating: 2
terrain. All heavy woods are considered light woods. Building counters
Troop Quality: Green
Ist Infantry Platoon
should be placed on the board as indicated in the special rules. The
Commonwealth player sets up first, using Hidden Units (Centurion, p.
3 ground infantry squads w/TVLGs
39).The TOG player's forces enter the north edge of Map 3 during thc
2nd Infantry Platoon
movement phase of Turn 1.
3 ground infantry squads w/TVLGs
3rd Infantry Platoon
3 ground infantry squads w/mortars
MAP3
GAMELENGTH
Combat continues for ten turns or until one side has bccn in
uncontested possession ofall five of the objective buildings,identified in
the Special Rules section, for three complete tus. However, the
BUILDINGS
countdown for sole possession cannot begin until Tum 3 of the game:
MAP2
SPECIAL RULES
Buildings
TONEY
Place a building counter in each of the hexes marked with a"B."All
of these building hexes have three levels and 20 AP, except as noted
TOGFORES
below. (A building hex actually represents a complex of buildings.)
First Century,4/3794th StrikeLegion
Centurion Scipio Nerva, Commander
Map 2,Hex 1002.5 levels.20AP
Leadership Rating: 4
Map2.Hex 1001,5levels,10AP *
Troop Quality:Regular
Map2.Hex 1102.2levels.40AP
Map 2, Hex 1202,3 levels, 40 AP,City Hall Complex *
Ist Heavy Grav ArmorPlatoon
3 Trajan heavy grav tanks
Map2,Hex 1501.4levels.20AP *
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
Map 2.Hex 1502.5 levels.40Ap *
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
Map3,Hex 1114.2levels,40AP.City Militia HQ Complex*
d Medium Gray Armor Platoons
Map 3,Hex 1213.3 levels.30AP
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
Map3,Hex 1414,4levels.40AP
Second Century.4/3794th Strike Legion
Sole Possession of Objective Buildings
The hexes marked with asterisks () represent objective building
Centurion Tara Urata. Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
hexes.In ordertohave sole.uncontested possession ofone ofthese hexes,
Troop Quality: Regular
only units from one side may occupy that hex, A destroyed building hex
Ist Arnored Infantry Platoon
does not count toward either side s victory conditions.
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
Infantry Close Assault in Buildings
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
occupied by an enemy squad, the moving squad may declare that it is
3 Lupis light grav APCs
entering the same building as the enemy and is engaging in close assault.
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
However, the two squads must also be on the same level of the building.
To resolve a close assault, apply the same-hex rules from Fire Personal
COMMONWEALTH FORCES
Weapons (Centurion, p.26). Elite squads add 2 to any die roll (maxi-
Second Company.2/64th Commonwealth Legion
mum result 1O)on the Infantry Damage table (Centurion,p.27).Grcen
Captain Andre de Payne, Commander
troops subtract I from any die roll (minimum result-1) on the Infantry
Leadership Rating:3
Damage table.
Troop Quality: Regular
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Ist Medium Grav Ammor Platoon
3 Liberator medium gray lanks
Decisive Victory, either side: Sole possession of all five objective
2nd Light Gray Armor Platoon
building hexes for three complete turms or at the end of Tum lo.
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
Substantial Victory,either side: Sole possession of four objective
Ist Amored Infantry Platoon
building hexes at the end of Turn i0.
3 Spartius medium gray APCs
Marginal Victory, either sidet Sole possession of two objective
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
building hexes at the end of Turn 10.
Drawi Any other result.

--- PAGE 40 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGOGGGG
THOR'SCHARIOT
For use with INTERCEPTOR
JUSTDOINGOURJOB
SITUATION:3NOVEMBER6818.ORBIT
ABOVEGUSTAVIVSREGRET
Excerpt, dated 3 November 6818., from the private journal of Naftis
Ronald Howell, gunner aboard the Pharetra Class corvette Callas
Following the failure of the 2/3794thto capture the Commonwealth
base at Egg, Admiral Longinius decided to deviate from the invasion's
Usually, corvette duty with an invasion fleet is a prelty soft as-
timetable and launch a major attack against that facility.In prcparation for
signment, But when it gets hot, it really gets hot.
this operation. he ordered Thor satellites to be placed in orbit over the
Archikeleustus Morrann came back from ops this moming and told
planet.
us we had drawn a special mission. We were to take the old Callas out on
Early on the morning of 3 November, a Pharetra-T Class corvelle.
a Thor placement mission. T'd gotten used to being aboard a Cinghum.
escorted by a pair of Marriobarbulus heavy fighters, slipped out of the
The Callas is a Pharetra modified to cary Thor satellites. It only pro-
TOG fleet, heading for the atmosphere.
duces about half the thrust of a Cingulmm. Whcn I asked AK Morrann
The mission was detected by tracking stations at the Alist Com-
what half-wit picked us for the mission, he said that he volunteered us.
monwealth naval base, and Squadron Eight of the So12th Marine Pursuit
Anyhow, the deck crew got the Callas ready and booted us oul. As
Wing was scrambled to meet the TOG ships. The fight was short and
we cleared the bay, I saw that old man Kuroda was nice enough to give
costly for both sides. Squadron Eight was all but eliminated, One Marry
us a couple of brand new Martys to nun interference.
was destroyed,and the other was so badly damaged that it was broken up
As soon as we left the fleet's CAP AO, we picked up a squadron of
for spare parts. The Callas was able to deploy most of its deadly payload.
bandits heading our way.The Warbook said that it was 85 percent certain
Four satellites rcmaincd in operation until they were destroyed by a later
that at least two of the incomings were Fluttering Peta/s. AK Morrann
attack mission.
ordered us to battle stations, and contacted our escort. The Martys had
already spotted the hostiles and were heading out to intercept them.
Tri-Dee gives a lotof people the wrong idea about what a space battle
is like.Mostofthe time,you can'teven see the enemy ships, You just stare
into a Heads-Up Display and fire when the computer tells you to.The IFF
does draw little fighter icons on the HUD, but those are sometimes more
of a distraction than a help, Since I'm the gunner. I usually have the best
HUD on jhe ship, even better than the captain's. It has to be. If I make a
mistake, or miss a shot, we stand a real good chance of getting punctured.
Anyhow, I could see the Marrys tangling with the incomings as the bad
guys got closer. I couldn't tell, at that range, if anybody was gelting real
shot up. The only thing I could do was lock a Snake onto one of the icons
labeled as a Petal.
When the Commns got about 4oo klicks away from the Callas, I let
the missile go, more for my own comfort than in hopc of hitting anything.
Imagine my surprise when the HUD recorded a hit. AK Morrann said it
was a good shot but told me to save the missiles because we'd ncced them
later.
He was right. By the time we got thosc Thors in place, we had been
breached twice,and the onlything Ihad left in the magazine was one DFM
pod. Mary One got flamed about halfway through the fight, and Marry
Two was so bad off when we got back that they thoughi he was going to
prang it during recovery. Fortunately for him, he didn't.
A while later CAG told us that we had done a helluva a job, and that
he was proud of us. Ireally could have slugged AK Morrann for what he
said next.
"'Congratulations are not in order, sir. We were just doing our job."

--- PAGE 41 [OCR] ---
GGG
IGGGG
GAMESET-UP
GAMELENGTH
Interceptor rules arc used in this scenario.
The scenario lasts untilthe Callas has launched every satellite it can.
Lay out the maps as shown. The TOG ships enter from the right edge
or until it is destroyed or leaves the board (whichever occurs first).
of Map 3 during the movement phase of Turn 1., The Commonwealth
Interceptors enter from the boltom left corner of Map I,between Hexes
SPECIAL RULES
VLHRDELVHLBTLLEE
O106 and 0414 inclusive, during thc movement phase of Turn 1.
Thor Satellites
1A9
The Callas is carrying 6 Thor satellites, Any time intemal damage
produces a "Weapon Destroyed"resuit, roll iDio. If the result is 6-10.
apply the damage normally.If the result is 1-5, the damage destroys one
of the satellites, This means that the satellite may not be deployed.
Similarly, a "Weapons Short' result might prevent a satellite from
being launched. Roll IDio. If the result-is 1-5, no salellite may be
launched in the tumn of the short. If the result is 6-lo, apply the short
normally.With a"Massive Weapons Short.a 1-5 means that no satellite
may be launched in the tum of the short or in the turn following the short.
Finally. no satellites may be launched while the power coupling is
damaged or destroyed.
The Callas may only launch its satellites at specific locations on the
board, corresponding to targets on the surface of Gustaviv's Regret. The
six locations are six triplets of hexes, 0802-0804 and 0809-0811 on each
of the three maps.To launch a satellite.the Callas mustend its movement
in one of the three hexes marking a location. (lt does not have to have
velocity O.) If it can launch a satellite after the combat phase,it does so.
It cannot launch more than one satellite in any one tniplet of hexes.
MAP3
MAP2
The Thor satellites may not be damaged after being deployed.
MAP1
Record Keeping
The number of Thor satellites deployed during this scenario deter-
mines the number of Thor strikes availabletothe TOG player in Scenario
7. Lichen Plains.
TOG FORCESmOTd nbn
INS Callas,a Pharelra Class corvette,Piloring 5.Gunnery 4, SOT 4
VITORYCONDITIONS
TOG Decisive Victory: All six Thor satellites are deployed.
Martiobarbulus 1:Piloring 6,Gunnery 6, SOT 6trD
Martiobarbulus 2: Piloting 5, Gunnery 5, SOT 61 n(fsolimpnbme onit
TOG Substantial Victory: Five satellites are deployed
TOG Marginal Victory: Four satellites are deployed.
Draw: Three satellites are deployed
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
Squadron Eight, so12th Marine Pursuit Wing
Commonwealth Marginal Victory: Two satellites are deployed.
Commonwealth Substantial Victory: One satellite is deployed.
Penetrator l:Piloting 5,Gunnery 4.SOT 6
Penetrator 2: Piloring 5.Gunnery 4. SOT 6
Commonwealth Decisive Victory: No satellites are deployed.
Space Gulll:Pilotine5,Gunnery4.SOT6
SpaceGull2:Piloring 5.Gunneny 4.SOT6
tnouemcobmaabhd
Flutterning Petal l:Pilotine 5.Gumnery 5.SOT5
Fluttering Petal 2:Piloting 6.Gunnery 6, SOT 6

--- PAGE 42 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGOGGGGGGO
GGGOGGGG
LICHEN PLAINS
For use with LEVIATHAN,INTERCEPTOR,and CENTURION
SITUATION:8 NOVEMBER 68I8.LICHEN
ATHREE-PARTBATTLE
PLAINS.5SO KMNORTHWESTOFEGG
Excerpt from Dustand Fire,The Bartlefor Gustaviy s Regret Captain
George Anders CAF (retired), New Janos Publishing Company,  18
Seeing the Commonwealth base at Egg as both a threat and a prize.
June 6825. Used by permission.
Prefect Timmons ordered the 2/3794th Strike Legion to push south and
capture both the city and the base, intact if possible.
The battle of Lichen Plains was the first major battle of what the
Following a massive bombardment by the TOG fleet, the 2/3794th
Toggies called Operation Distant Fire. The naval action during the
jumped off. Racing along the westem shore of the Imp Sea, they had
invasion was just a warmn-up for the intense fighting of 8 November.
almost reached Egg when they were met by elements of the 2/64th
Rufio Timmons.Prefectof the3794th StrikeLcgion,had ordered his
Commonwealth Legion, supported by three companies of local militia.
troops to launch a number of probing actions all along the front. Most of
Insteadofexchanging afew shots andfading away.asthe Commonwealth
these actions were seen by ourrelatively green troops as full-scale attacks,
troops had done up to this point, the defenders stood fast. Centurion
and the untried soldiers simply folded up and ran. When Timmons
Maximus Dale arRammis called in an artillery barrage,hoping to scatter
ordered a real attack on our bases outside of Egg, for sorne reason the 2/
the defenders. The barrage was answered with surprisingly accurate
64th stood and fought. After a very short battle, some accounts say no
counter-battery fire. Centurion Maximus arRammis was shocked to see
more than 45 minutes, the TOG units withdrew. That was on 31 October.
the Coirnonwealth vehicles not only standing fast, but attacking
From the few accounts I've been able to glean fron pnisoners, the
In space,Admiral Longinius and Commodore Kuroda were equally
repulse of the 2/3794th north of Egg sent Timmons into a perfect rage.
shocked to see the battered Comrmonwealth fleet bearing down on the
One story is that he shot the communications officer who brought him the
TOG ships orbiting Gustaviv's Regret.
report. What really happened in the TOG invasion headquarters that day
The battle of Lichen Plains had begun.
is academic. Timmons drew up a plan of attack that he felt couldn't fail.
When it was over, the TOG forces had nearly destroyed the second
The remaining elements of the 2/3794th, backed up by artillery,air, and
battalion of the 64th Cornmonwealth Legion. Thc victonous TOG forces
naval support,would lash out southward, bypassing the Commonwealth
swcpt into Egg with no further resistance, The fleet action above Lichen
positions west of the Imp Sea, and strike at Egg from the south. Given
Plains had shattered the Commonwcalth fleet, forcing it to withdraw from
Brigadier General Burke's reluctance to bring on a general engagement,
Gustaviv's Regrel and granting the TOG ships superiority in space.
the plan had merit.
Though other batles would have greater military significance in the
In the early moming hours of 8 November, the TOG fleet took up a
campaign for Gustaviv's Regret, none would have the impact on disci-
gcostationary orbit above Lichen Plains, and started hammcring at the last
pline and morale that the battle of Lichen Plains had on the 64th. To them.
known positions of the 2/64th Commonwcalth Legion. Fortunately for
it seemed thateven when their generals did decide to fight, they still could
the 2/64th, their commander had ordered a move during the night of 3
not win against TOG.
November. The barrage fell on cmpty craters.
When at last the guns fell silent, thc 2/3794th swept out of their
concealed positions and bcgan racing southward Thcy hadn't even gone
fifteen klicks when they ran into the 2/64th, whom they had thought
destroyed.
Brigadier General Burke made the decision to meet the attack on the
Lichen Plains,rather than allowing the 3794th to capture the bases at Egg
without a fight. In spacc, Fleet Captain Del a'v brought his fleet out of
hiding and attacked the TOG ships.
The battle lasted eighteen hours. During thal time, more than two
thousand men lost their livcs. More Defender of the Alliance decorations
were awarded for acts of valor during Lichen Plains than during the rest
of the Gustaviv's Regret campaign combined. In the end, the Com-
monwealth was forccd toretire with heavylosses, and the2/3794th rolled
into Egg, bloodied but triumphant.

--- PAGE 43 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
GGGGGGGOGGI
GAME SET-UP
Interceptor Units
This scenario uses all three Renegade Legion board games, In-
Units as available from the Leviathan board
terceptor, Leviathan, and Centurion.
Lay out the maps as illustrated in Distant Fire Special Rule: In-
Centurion Units
tegrating Leviathan, Centurion, and Interceptor. Note which pair of
To determine the composition of the TOG Centurion force, roll
space maps is the Interceptor board and which is the Leviathan board.
1Di0 and subtract the number of transpont ships destroyed during
The forces set up as follows:
Scenario 2, Consult the TOG Centurion Forces table for the result
Leviathan board: The TOG player sets up firsi, He deploys his
forces along the left edge of the Leviathan board, within six hexes of the
edge. The Comrponwealth forces enter the right edge of the board during
TOGCENTURION FORCESTABLE
the movement phase of Leviathan Tum 2.
Die Roll
Force Used
Interceptor board: Neither side bcgins the game with fighters
2 or less
deployed on the Interceptor board. Integrating Leviathan, Centurion.
3-5
and Interceptor describes fighter launching
6-8
Centurion board: The Commonwealth player sets up first. He
9-10
deploys his forces anywhere he chooses on Centurion Map 1. Units may
begin the game grounded in craters. For every crater placed on the board
prior to Turn 1, be sure to mark off one digging charge from a vehicle
Force A
record sheet. The TOG forces enter the board during the movement phase
First Century,2/3794th Strike Legion
of Centurion/Interceptor Tum 1.
Centurion Maximus Dale arRammis, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
Troop Quality: Regular
MAP1
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3 Trajan heavy grav tanks
2nd Medium Gray Armor Plaloon
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
MAP2
3rd Medium Grav Amor Platoon
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
Second Century,2/3794th Strike Legion
Centurion Anthony Wheeler, Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Regular
TOG FORCES
Ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
Leviathan Units
3 Aeneas light gray tanks
All naval units that survived Scenario 2, except the transports.
2nd Ammored Infantry Platoon
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
Historical Force
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Task Force Temerarius, 20203lst Harasser Squadron
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
Commodore Joseph Kuroda, Commander
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
uma nansns
Leadership Rating: 5
3 bounee infantry squads w/TVLGs
All ships and fighters are fully repaired.
INS Temerarius, a Mars Class battleship
3 Artillery Fire Missions
2 Gladius squadrons
2 Spicutum squadrons
Force B
I Saxum squadron
First Century.2/3794th Strike Legion
1 Defensor squadron id eriunso ho lb imos
Centurion Maximus Dale arRarnmis, Commander
INS Black Prince.a Syracuse Class cruiser
Leadership Rating: 4
I Verutum flight
Troop Quality:Regular
1 Marriobarbulus flight
Ist Heavy Grav Amor Platoon
1 Gladius flight
2 Trajan hcavy gray tanks
INS Percussor,a Bantha Class frigateulatg tlgl /
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
I Spicu/um flight
3 Horatius mcedium grav tanks
1 Gladius flight
3rd Medium Grav Armor Platoon
INS Firestorm, a Bantha Class frigate
2 Horatius medium grav tanks
2 Sica flights
INS Artis, a Serpens Class destroyer
1 Saxum flight

--- PAGE 44 [OCR] ---
GGGGD
GGG
JGGG
Second Century,2/3794th Strike Legion
-TAMAD
Centurion Anthony Whecler,Commander n g anua it
tamd dos
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Rcgularinai  uni
Ist Light Grav Amor Platoon
3 Aeneas light grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
lteol3Romulus medium gray APCssdT Ehnod nutinfyd
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs aalsfist aif guolzoonoj
siin3rd Amored Infantry Platoon
2 Romulus medium grav APCs
tfgil2bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
3 Artillery Fire Missions
Force C
First Century,2/3794th Strike Legion
Optio Ellen Boyce,Commander
Leadership Rating:3
Troop Quality:Regular
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
I Trajan heavy grav tank
2nd Medium Grav Armor Platoon
3 Horatius mcdium grav tanks
3rd Medium Grav Armor Platoon
I Horatius medium gray tank
Second Century.2/3794th StrikeLegion
Centurion Anthony Wheeler,Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality:Regular
Ist Light Grav Amor Platoon
3 Aeneas light grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
2 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
I bounce infantry squad w/montars
2 Artillery Fire Missions
Force D
Elements of First Century,2/3794th Strike Legion
Optio Ellen Boyce,Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Regular
2nd Medium Grav Amor Platoon
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
Elements of Second Century,2/3794th Strike Legion
Centurion Anthony Wheeler, Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality:Regular
Ist Light Gray Armor Platoon
3 Aeneas light grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
I Artillery Fire Mission

--- PAGE 45 [OCR] ---
IGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
MAOYHR
MLO
Historical Force
SPECIAL RULES
Force B was the historical force for TOG in this battle.Four Thor satellites
Capital Ship Repair
Sixteen days have elapsed since Scenario2.However,only twodays
were in orbil al the time.
(48 hours) of maintenance time has been available in that time for cither
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
side. Each player may make a total of 48 hours, worth of repairs to cach
Leviathan Units
of his ships.Damage to armor may not be repaired, A player may declare
(uAll ships that survived Scenario 2.
thathe has sent one ormore of his capital ships back tothe nearest shipyard
for repairs. This must be done prior to the set-up for-this scenario, If a
Historical Force
playerchooses this option, ships sent back willnot bc availableduring this
43120thDefense Squadron
scenario, but will be fully repaired for Scenario 13. w mma re
Minefieldsnwanasn
Fleet Captain Del a v. Commander
Leadership Rating:5
The Commonwealth player begins the game with two hidden
All ships and fighters are fully repaired. i lt rlt -otr ocn vml
minefields, Before play begins, he secretly records their locations.
Off-Board Support
RLS Agic, a Vitak Class cruiser nfn : Hnit So  avimE
RLS Caringorm. a Carrhage Class cruiser
Both Centurion forces may request artillery support. If a side has
IArenger flight
capital ships near enough, it may request naval fire support. In addition,
I Flulering Petal flight
the TOG commandermight be abletoreguest one ormore Thor missions.
IGuardian tlight
Each side's Centurion commander may only make one request per turn.
RS Red Tail. an Ereter Class destroyer
Sec Thor Missions (below) and Distant Fire'Special Rule: Off-Board
Support for details. shfgomun nn lo sooe
2 Cheelah squadrons
Thor Missions cum
2 Guardian sguadrons:
RLS DuhessKatherine.anAjaxClass.destroyer
If any Thor satellites were successfully deployed in Scenario 6,the
TOG player may be able to call in a Thor strike.These satellites are not
Mn1Avenger squadron
on the board and neither they nor their strikes may be attacked, A Thor
Interceplor Units
strike arrives threetums afterit is called,as perthe Thor Satellite System
Units as available from the Leviathan board.gin mb sit Tathr
rules in Centurion, p. 36. See the Thor Mission A vailability table for
how many strikes can be called during the scenario.
Centurion Units
Elements of First Company,7/64th Commonwealth Legion
THOR MISSIONAVAIL
ABILITYTABLE
Captain Lin Fael, Commander
Satellites Deploved
Missions Avallable
Leadership Rating:4
4.6
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
1 Deliverer heavy grav tank
2nd Medium Gray AmorPlaloon
3 Liberalor medium grav tanks
Cdmwobmod ogo
Fourth Company,7/64th Commonwealth Legion
Captain Thadeus Nedielkowisk, Commander
Individual Withdrawal
Use the Distant Fire Special Rule: Withdrawal: Individual
Leadership Rating:2
Withdrawal in this scenario. If a unit fails its morale roll it must
Troop Quality:Regular
withdraw off the edge of the map from which itentered omt f
Ist Light Gray Armor Platoon
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
VICTORY CONDITIONS
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Spartius medium gray APCs
Decisive Victory.either side: All enemy units destroyed or forced
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
to withdraw from all three boards, and at least one friendly unit still on the
3rd Amored Infantry Platoon
Centurion board.
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
Substantial Victory, either side: All enemy units destroyed or
forced to withdraw from the Leviathan and Centurion boards, and at
3 bounce infantry squads w/mortars
least one fnicndly unit still on the Centurion boardpoa,Unaodral
3 Artillery Fire Missions
Marginal Victory,either side:All enemy units destroyedorforced
2 Hidden Minefields
to withdraw from the Centurion board,and at least one friendly unit still
on the Centurion board.e to wd.
GAME LENGTH
Draw: All units from both sides destroyed or forced to withdraw
Combat continues for two full Leviathan turns after the last ground
from the Centurion board.
unit on one side or the other (but not both) has been cleared from the
Centurion board.

--- PAGE 46 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGD
INTOTHEFRYINGPAN
For use with CENTURION
AN INDECISIVE BATTLE
SITUATION:4DECEMBER68I8.FRYINGPAN
Excerpt from the personal diary of Mastati Harold Steiner, Third
On 4 December, the TOG 118th Marine Special Combat Century
Platoon118thMSCC
was assigned to capture the Commonwealth 5o12th Marine Pursuit
Wing's group base on Frying Pan, The mission would have been routine
Our team was called up to run a raid on a Commonwealth base
wereit not for the low gravity and lack of atmosphere on that small planet.
located on Frying Pan, the sccond planct in the Gustaviv system. Legatus
Using two Pharetra Class corvettes, escorted by a squadron of
Drake said thal some of the Commonwealth fighters harassing thc flect
Gladins fighters, the 118th MSCC dropped into a small, sheltered valley
were operating outofa base hidden in the craggy mountains nearthe south
slightly more than three kilometers from the base. When the Marines
polar region.
arrived at the base, thc S012th's fighiers suddenly launched, closely
Drake wanted us to hit the base, destroy the fighters stationed there.
pursued by the TOG Pharetras and Gladit.
and hold the facility untila garrison could bemoved in.Thoughthat seens
Atthe installation's main hangardome.the Commonwealth garrison
simple enough in planning, the execution of such an opcration can be a
engaged the attacking Marines in a battle that spilled out of the dome and
real nightmare,
onto the base's launch and landing strip. During the fighting. most of the
liFrying Pan has virtually no atmosphere and an extremely low
5012th's support crews were able to escape in shuttles to Gustaviv's
surface gravity The absence of an atmosphere isn't that much of a
Regret. On the ground, thc Commonwealih soldiers sold their lives as
problem, given the high-tech combat suits we use, Only a solid hit from
dearly as possible to allow their comrades to escape.
a big weapon, like a laser or an assault rifle, will breach the suit badly
In the end, the gamison was wiped out, leaving only six badly
enough to cause trouble. It's the lack of gravity thal worries me in
Wounded survivors to be taken prisoner by the TOG Marines. The 118th
situations like that The absence of gravity or low gravity.limits thc use
MSCC had 48 dead and 27 severely injured,which effectively destroyed
of grav units like APCs or bounce packs. In fact, the gray drives on most
it as a fighting force. These were the highest casualty rates of any unit on
vehicles can't be adjusted to operate in a micro-G environment. Bounce
either side during the entire Gustaviv's Regret campaign.
packs can be adjusted to low-G, but it takes a great deal of training to
operate one under those conditions. One wrong moveand a man can land
badly, overshoot his bounce, or escape the planet's low gravity.
The difficulties in low-G vacuum ops notwithstanding.we went in
Inielligence found us a secure LZ about thrce klicks frorn the base. We
dropped in there and humped it the short hike to the base.
Everything was going according to plan. We took down the sentries
and planted charges in some of the revetment bubbles with no trouble
then reached the main hangar dome. That's when they hit us.
Somehow the Comm garrison must have spolted us, because as soon
as we staried into the main dome, they ambushcd us. I mean, they threw
cverything they had al us, Optio Lewisson got burned down by a laser
during the first few minutes of the fighting. Sergeant Kline took over, but
he caught a heavy slug in the shoulder that breached his suit. Lucky for
him, Patterson slapped a sealpatch over the hole before he lost too much
of his atmosphcre.
About that time we got a call from second platoon. The base's
fightcrs were trying to launch. Our platoon wasn't in much of a position
to.stop them. Neithcr was first plaloon, and so stopping the fighters was
upto sccond.Mostof the birds got away.but at least our fighters kept them
from linking up with their FTLtransport We concentrated on the shuttles
carrying their technical and support crews. The garrison staved behind.
buying time for the escaping fighters and covering the support crews.
In theend, we did secure the basc,bul we had tokillevery last Comm
troopcr todo it. The fighters got away,and I understand that most of them
made it to Gustaviv 's Regret and landed at one of the Comm bases there.
The cost to our side was enormous. Out of 90 men, 75 were killed or
severely wounded o baynast
Tactically,the baitle was a draw, We chased thc Comms out of their
hole, but their ships got away. The brass is calling it a strategic victory.
because wegot the base and stoppcd the harassment I imagine the
Commonwealth brass is claiming the same thing.

--- PAGE 47 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGOGOGGGGGGO
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
GAME SET-UP
This scenario uses thc Centurion inlantry combal rules
COMMONWEALTHFOROES
Security Detachment, So12th Marine Pursuit Wing
Lay out the maps as shown. The Commonwealth player sets up first.
using Hidden Units (Centurion, p. 39). Six Interceptor counters are
Major Allan Chu, Commander
placed on the board to represent the 5012th's support crew shuttles. Each
Leadership Rating: 3
building is two levels high and has 40 AP. No more than 8 of the
Troop Quality: Regular toe id yhlllull s -jryis iuut sl
Commonwealth 's 15 squads may bc placed inside the main hangardone.
Ist Security Platoonr
The TOG forces chter the board from the top of Map 2.
3 ground infantry squads
All woods and stream hexes are to bc considered as clear lerrain for
2nd Security Platoon
this scenano.
3 ground infantry squads
Ist Combat Platoon
3 ground infantry squads w/mortarsty loginvom uer7
2nd Combat Platoon
3 ground infaniry squads w/TVLGs
3rd Combat Platoon
3 ground infantry squads
MAP2
Support Crews, soi2th Marine Pursuit Wing
6 support crews
GAMELENGTH
Combat continues until one side achieves its victory conditions.
SPECIALRULESadaodboWTbai
Elite SquadsCR
The elite squads receive a +l modifier when rolling on the Infantry
MAP3
Damage Table.
TVLGS
CEOEA COVDTUOVE
TVLGs inflict damage as IWF S.
Vacuum To-Hit Modifier
Tosimulatetheeffects of vacuum,all infantryfire gelsa +l modifier.
Bounce Infantry Scatter
Because of the low gravity,any bounce infantry squad that moves
BUILDINGS
more than two hexes per tum may losc control. Roll IDlo. Elite squads
OINTERCEPTOR COUNTER
(the only type of bounce infantry in this scenario) subtract one from this
roll, If the result is 9 or lo, the unit has lost control and must roll on the
TOG FORCES
Low Gravity Scatter table.
I1Sth Marine Special Combat Century,attached tothe3794th Strike
Legion
Cenlurion Michael Eadmonds, Commander
MLULLOWGRAVITYSOATTERTABLE
Leadership Rating:6
Die Roll
Result
Troop Quality: Elite
1-6
Unit scatters from thc hex as a thrown grenade.
Ist Marine Combat Platoon
as described in Scatter of Thrown Objects in
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Legionnaire (p, 104).
2nd Marine Combat Platoon
7-8
Unit scatters and is disrupted. It may not fire this
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
tum, nor move, nor fire the next tum.
3rd Marine Combat Platoon
As 7-8 above, and takes 1 casualty
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
10
As 7-8 above, and takes 3 casualties

--- PAGE 48 [OCR] ---
OGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGOG
JGGG
Ground Infantry and Support Crew Movement
Ground squads are not equipped with bounce packs; therefore,they
may only move one hex per tum.
Support Crews
The support crews are indicaled by vehicle crew counters, Each
support crew has eight unarmed pcrsonnel. These crews stant the game in
the main hangar dome (Map2, Hex 1711). On the turn following the first
tum of combat, cach support crew may move at a rate of one hex per tumi
to a shutle.
On the tun a crew reaches a shutile, the crew can still be attacked.
During movement of the next turn, the crew enters the shuttle, but the
shuttle itself can still be attacked. During movement of the third turn, the
shuttle is powered and launches. It may be attacked with Opportunity Fire
(in the launching hex), but it is out of range and cannot be attacked during
the combal phase.
Attacking Shuttles
Shuttles may be autacked normally by infantry squads as though they
were vehicles. Use a Patrol Craft Record Sheet for each shuttle. A shuttle
has no shields, but it does have 30 points of armor on each facing. It has
no weapons.
An infantry squad that is in the samc hex as an unpowered shuttle and
that is not attacked this tum may choose in which defense column to apply
its damage. The only way to disable a shuttle is to reach a hcavy black
circle on the record sheet: "Plant Destroyed," "SLD Destroyed"or
Structural Collapse."tnwilhioi.F+aio thmip sills idT
VICTORYCONDITIONS
TOG has secured the base (and the Commonwealth has lost in) if
thcre are no active Security Detachment troops within five hexes of any
buildingor ship.TOG has failed to secure the base if there are no active
Marines within five hexes of any building or ship after Turn 6.
Decisive TOG Victory: The base is secured and no shuttles escape
Substantial TOG Victory: The base is secured, and 1-24 support
crew escape.
Marginal TOG Victory: Either the basc is secured or no more than
24 crew escapc.
Marginal Commonwealth Victory: Either the base is not lost or at
least16crew escape.
Substantial Comimionwealth Victory: The base is not lost and no
more than 24 crew are killed.
Decisive Comimonwealth Victory: The base is not lost and no more
than eight crew are killed.
Draw: Any other result.

--- PAGE 49 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
GGGGGGGGGOGGGGGGG
gdiawmns
WETOILA

--- PAGE 50 [OCR] ---
GGGG
WOLVESAMONGSHEEP
For use with CENTURION
IHISWELLDEFEND
SITUATION:29 DECEMBER 6818.MILE
STONE.1.SOOKMEASTOFISELTONE
Excerpt from the personal diary of Captain Irene Javic, Company B
33rdPlanetaryMilitia
As the 64th Commonwealth Legion withdrew to the south, many
local militia units remained behind. Somc could not keep up with the
When the 64th pulled back, we decided to stay.There was no order.
fusion-powcred grav vehicles. Others simply gave up, threw down their
no vote, no discussion. We just sat there on our Scamps and our Sterlings
arms, and awaited the oncoming TOG forces. Many stayed behind,
and waved goodbye to the 64th and their fancy grav tanks, I think that
vowing tofight tothelast rather than surrender thcirhomes tothe invading
every man in the outfit knew that if TOG rolled into Milestone, we were
tyrants.
going toget our teethkicked in, and thcrc wasn'tmuch we could do to stop
The 33rd Planetary Militia was raised and stationed in Milestone, a
it. But what else could we do2 To the 64th, Milcstone was just a picce of
large farming community about I,5o0 kilometers east of Iseltone. They
real cstate, but to us it was home.Sure,we sat around and brooded about
decided to stand and fight. They dug in and settled down to wait for the
the Commonwcalth pulling out and leaving us hanging. but that 's human
TOG armored units. Lacking grav armor or bounce packs for their
nature, right?
infantry,the 33rd knew that there was little they could do to even slow,
After a while, Major Franklin told us to start fortifying the town. He
much less halt, the numerically and technologically supenior invaders.
had us piling sandbags around doorways and windows,erecting razorwire
Nevertheless the mcn and women of the 33rd stayed behind to defend
entanglements, and seiting up barricades in the streetsnot that they
their homes and to buy time for the 64th to pull itself together.
Would be much of an obstacle to grav tanks. lt just made us feel better and
Aboutnoonon29December,elementsofthe6/3794thStrikeLegion
kept us busy. Major Franklin had all his dnives on line,if you know what
appeared on the cdge of the farmland surrounding the town. They were
I nean.He also got the noncombatants to hclp out by digging firing pits
met by the tracked and wheeled tanks and foot infantry of the 33rd. In a
boarnding up windows, and making firebombs outof old liquor bottles and
battle that lasted past sunsct, the 33rd was gradually pushed back into
pctrofuel.
Milestone, where they stubbomly fought the TOG troops in bloody
The Toggies didn'tkeep us waiting for long.A couple of days after
house-to-house fighting. Shortly aftcr Oloo on the moming of 30 De-
the 64th pulled out, a cormmand sled blew into town. It grounded right in
cember, the lopsided battle was over. The overmatched 33rd Planetary
the middle of the square. Some little guy in a red uniform stood up in the
Militia laid down its arms and surrcndcred.Many ofits members fled into
seal and started making a big speech about how TOG wanted to be our
the night, lo return occasionally with harassing raids on the TOG units
fricnd, and how the Commonwealth wanted to sell us all out to the
garrisoning their former homes,
Baufrin.Then he starts in on how he wants the militia to come out and lay
down their arms, and says we 'd get fair trcatment if we did. He ended the
wholething upby saying that if weresisted,his unit would roll in and level
Milestone.
I don't know whofired that first shot,but the impact blew the Toggie
right out of his sled, A few more shots were fired, but most of them either
missed or bounced off the sled's armor.At least wc got in the first punch.
Not long afier thal,a TOG gray armor column came down the north
road, We took our crawlers out into the fields and tricd to stop thcm, but
ground tanks are no match for gravs. Our infantry held their own for a
while, but, lacking bounce packs, they got slaughtered every time thcy
tried to move. Eventually, we had to rctreat into the town and fight them
for it housc-by-house. We gave them holy hell for about cight hours, bul
their superior firepower won out in the end.
Those of us who survived but didn t surrender took to the brush and
started making gucrrilla altacks on the Toggies rear areas, I don't know
if it had much of an effect on the overall invasion,but it surc made us feel
belter.

--- PAGE 51 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGG
GGGGD
HAJOCMAHZAME
GAME SET-LP
Centurion rules are needed for this scenario.
COMMONWEALTH FORCES
Lay out the maps as illustrated, The Commonwealth player sets up
Company A, 33rd Planetary Militia
first. He may deploy his forces anywhere on Map 4 within ten hexes of the
Major Simon Franklin,Commander
botom edge. The TOG forccs cntcr the board from thc top cdge of Map
LeadershipRating 3OTHTMUHiHOMIU
Troop Quality:Rcgular
Ist Heavy Ground Armor Platoon
3 Sterling heavy ground tanks
2nd Heavy Ground Armor Platoon
3 Sterling heavy ground tanks rhtswrusiuncs ≥lf A
3rd Infantry Platoon b
3 Halberd heavy ground APCs
3 ground infantry squads w/TVLGsoe t od o zoflnquri on
MAP3
Company B, 33rd Planetary Militia
Captain Irene Javic Commander
Leadership Rating: 2uwb y xin ol 
Troop Ouality:Grecn
Ist Light Ground Armor Platoon
3 Scamp light ground tanks
2nd Light Ground Amor Platoon
3 Scamp light ground tanks
3rd Infantry Platoon
MAP4
3 Harasser medium ground APCs
3 ground infantry squads w/mortars
GAMELENGTH
Combat continues until all units on one side have been destroyed or
withdrawn off the board.ard To dnoi
SPECIAL RULES
TOG FORCES
Withdrawal
First Century,6/3794th Strike Legion
Both sides use the Distant Fire Special Rule: Withdrawal in this
Centurion Paul Phillips, Commander
scenario.However,the TOGunits use Individual Withdrawal whilethe
Leadership Rating: 4
Commonwealth militia use Force Withdrawal.
Troop Ouality Regular
IstMedium Gray Arrtor Platoon
VICTORYCONDITIONS
3 Horatius medium gray tanks
The militia knows it has little chance against TOG's might, and is
2nd Light Gray Amor Platoon
just trying to cause as much damage as possible, in the hopes of driving
3 Aencas light grav lanks
TOG around,rather than through, Milestone.Making a vehicle withdraw
3rd Amored Infantry Platoon
is good,but destroying oneis cven better.The victory conditions are given
3 Lupis light grav APCs
in terms of vehicle withdrawals. However, destroying a TOG vehicle is
3 bounce infantry squads w/T'VLGs
worth twice as much as causing one lo withdraw.Every destroyed TOG
vehicle counts as rwo withdrawn TOG vehicles.
Decisive TOG Victory: No TOG vehicles withdrawn.
Substantial TOG Victory: One TOG vehiele withdrawn.
Marginal TOG Victory:Two TOG vchicles withdrawn.
Draw: Three to four TOG vehicles withdrawn.
Marginal Commonwealth Victory: Five TOG vehicles with
drawn.
Substantial Commonwealth Victory: Six TOG vehicles with
drawn.
Decisive Commonwealth Victory: Seven or more TOG vehicles
withdrawn

--- PAGE 52 [OCR] ---
SMASHANDGRAB
For use with CENTURION
LIVING HIGH ON THE TOG
SITUATION: 6JANUARY6819.ASUPPLY
BASESSOKMEASTOFWESTFIELD
Excerpted from Molemen and Earth Shakers, The Invasion of
Gustai's Regret, Robert F. Bales, Commonwealth Publishing.6822
In desperate need of supplies, many Commonwealth units took to
raiding their former bases, now in the hands of the 3794th Strike Legion.
As thc Commonwealth forces withdrew southward under light but
tor foodfuel.ammunition.and othervital materiel Onesuch unit wasthe
steady TOG pressure, many units found themselves cut off from their
Third Company, 4/64th Comrnonwealth Legion, Using light, fast grav
supply trains. In other cases, the supply lines were intact, but there were
tanks and APCs, the 3/4/64th struck repeatedly at bases as much as 200
no supplies to be had. Somc cnitics have laid the blame squarely at the feet
kilometers behind enemy lines, seizing enough supplies in each raid to
of Brigadier General Burke, other historians feel that the rapidly croding
kcep the 4/64th fighting a little while longer.
front lines made it impossible to resupply every unit in the legion. Add the
On 6 January,units of the 3/4/64th screamed into a supply depot
fact that sevcral major Conmonwealth bases had fallen into TOG hands.
formerly occupied byelements of the 3129th Gustaviv's RegretPlanctary
forcing the Commonwealth to rely on dwindling supply stockpiles, and
Militia. As the Wolverine grav tanks engaged the TOG Aeneas and Lupis
a more reasonable picture emerges to explain why some Commonwealth
light grav AFVs in a fierce gun battle, infantry carriers and grav trucks
units went off on independent foraging expeditions.
swept into the base and began looting supplies. Before the stunined
These supply raids are undoubtedly partly to blame for the wild
defenders could mount an organized defense, Captain Levi Traupmann
rumors that some Commonwealth units were deserting en masse to TOG.
the Commonwcalth mission leader, sounded the recall. and the raiders
What is a unit commander to think when he wakes upone morning to find
vanished into the night.
half the men in his command missing? Ifonly as much attention had been
given to the men when they returmed later that day with truckloads of
badly needed supplies.
One of the more notorious raiding parties was the Third Medium
Ammored Platoon of the Iseltone Militia. In four separate incidents, they
disguised themselves as TOG legionnaires and calmly drove in through
the front gate of their old base north of the city. On the last of these
occasions, their truck broke down inside the basc compound, Their
commapder, Lieutenant Gunnar Hrolfsson, coolly requisitioned a TOG
armored grav carrier to transport the loot back to Commonwealth lines.
Not all raids were so bloodless as those staged by the Third Iseltone.
Many relied on attacks by grav tanks onthe installation's defenders,while
carriers moved in to hurriedly load anything the infantry could get their
hands on, At timcs, the raid cost almost as much in terms of anmunition
expended as it gained the raiders in supplies.
TAT.

--- PAGE 53 [OCR] ---
NGGGGGG
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
GAMESET-UP
Elements of Second Century4/728lst Security Auxilia L1
The Centurion rules are used for this scenario
Optio Jak Darin,Commander
Lay out the maps as illustrated, Place buildings in the hexes marked
Leadership Rating: 4 o @utuli >ile(otre F-uf vim I inbwg eb
"B." These are the buildings of the supply depot. Each is one level high
Troop Quality: Regular
and has 30 AP.
Ist Security Platoono It (citest Fti unl vtir s .lnlite
The TOG player sets up first. His grav tanks and APCs must be
ht sil 3 ground infantry squads )( u n o ou nlrds
placed on the board, but his infantry squads may set up using Hidden
Units (Centurion, P. 39). They may set up in buildings. The TOG
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
vchicles are grounded on the surface,but none may be in craters. (This is
Third Company,4/64th Commonwealth Legion
an exception to Distant Fire Special Rule: Initial Velocities.)
Captain Levi Traupmann, Commander
The Commonwealth forces enter from the top of Map I during the
Leadership Rating:5
movcmenr phase of Tum 1.
Troop Quality: Regular :s af9 
Ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon  01
3 Viper lighi grav APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs u
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
MAP1
3 Viper light grav APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/mortarsoiea yaprory
Elements of Fourth Gray Transport Company.
4/64th Commonwealth Legion
Sergeant Ira Robertson, Commander
Leadership Rating:3
Troop Quality:Regular
2nd Grav Transport Platoon
MAP4
3 grav trucks
GAMEIENGTH
Combat continues until there are no functioning Commonwealth
units on the board.
SPECIAL RULES
Ground Infantry Movement
BUILDINGS
Ground infantry squads may only move one hex per turn.
Damaging Supplies
When a building is struck by weapons fire, and the damages reaches
TOG FORCES
theInfantry Casualtiesblocks,roll one die.Ifthe result is I-7,the infantry
Elements of Third Century,3/3794th Strike Legion
units inside (if any) take damage normally. If the result is 8-1o, supply
Optio Kevin Arianius, Commander
factors cqual to the amount of damage for that weapon on the Infantry
Leadership Rating: 3
Damage Table (Centurion, p, 27) are lost.
Troop Quality: Regular
Loading Supplies
2nd Light Amnor Platoon
An infantry squad may loada number of supply factors onto a vehicle
3 Aeneas light grav tanks
cqual to the number of active men it has at the end of that turn. A squad
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
that is loading supplies may neither move nor fire during that tum
3 Lupis light grav APCs
Each building in the depot holds 20o factors of supplies, A vehicle
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
must be in the same hex as a building lo have supplies loaded into it.
Each truck holds 32 factors of supplies. Each Viper holds ten, in
addition to its infantry. Each Wolverine holds two. Vehicles must be
grounded in order to be loaded.

--- PAGE 54 [OCR] ---
GOGGOGGGGOGGGGGO
Destroving Loaded Supplies
Use a normal Centurion vehicle record sheet for each gray truck.
VICTORY POINTTABLE
Supplies are stowed in the 32 "Infantry boxes. Every Infantry box
Condition
Victory Points
destroyed on a grav truck destroys its ability tocarry one factorof supplies
Earned
Each TOG gray tank destroyed
+20 points
Similarly, every Infantry box destroyed on a Wolverine destroys its
Each TOG APC destroyed
ability to carry one supply factor (maximum two).APC supplies are not
Each TOG bounce infantry casualty
aifndtho+1point
destroyed unless their ammunition explodes.
Each TOG ground infaniry casualty
+.5 point
Each supply factor captured and safely transported
GRAVTRLCK
off the board
+2 points
Thrust:
Each Commonwealth gray tank destroyed
-20 points
Scenario Points:
Each Cornmonwealth APC or grav truck destroyed
5-10points
Infantry Squad:
Yes (None available for this scenario)
Each Commonwealth bounce infantry casualty
I point
Digging Cannons:
No
Shields:
None
l0 on all facings
Armor:
Decisive Commonwealth Victory:300 or more points
Weapons:
Substantial Commonwealth Victory:200 to 299.5 points
Type
Location
Damage
Range
Marginal Commonwealth Victory: 100 to 199.5 points
AP laser
Turret
Draw:49.5to99.5 points
Marginal TOG Victory:-50 to-99.5 points
VICTORYCONDITIONS
Substantial TOG Victory:-149.5to-100 points
Use the Victory Point table below to determine the victor.
Decisive TOG Victorv:-1So or fewer points
ADAM

--- PAGE 55 [OCR] ---
GGGGD
GGGGL
IGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
ON THE WINGS OFANGELS
For use with INTERCEPTOR
LONGFLIGHT.LONGERODDS
SITUATION:2FEBRUARY6819.GUSTAVIV'S
REGRET
Opcrational Order#21557.2February6819
When word came down that a Commonwealth relief fleet was on its
As of this date.First and Second Companies,Eighth Battalion,64th
way, General David Gunn set a long-planned operation into motion.
Commonwealth Lcgion, will report to the 7lst Acrospacc Transport
Severalelite units of grav armor and infantry were inserted behind encmy
Wing.Two Ange/ Class transport corveites will deliver 1 and 2.8/64 to
lines by transport corvettes.These detachments, called "'Gabriel Units,
point Able 6 whcrc they will deploy and commence Operation Gabriel.
were ordered to cause havoc and confusion in the TOG's rear areas. In so
SeccOperalionalOrder#21548.
doing, the 3794th would be forced to pull increasing numbers of units out
of the advance to search for thc gucmillas.
Signed: Gunn. General David F
Onc of these units, codenamcd Cat's Paw. was intercepted by
Commander, 64th Commonwealth Legion
elements of the 3i4th Heavy Carrier Wing before they reached their drop
point.Eight heavyand medium TOGfighters swarmed over thetwoAngel
Class corvettes and their fighter escort.By the time the last TOG ship was
Excerpt from Dust and FireTheBarflefor Gustaviv'sRegrer.Captain
destroyed, three of the four escort fightcrs had been downed, and both of
Gcorgc Anders, CAF (retired). New Janos Publishing Co, @ l8 June
the corvettes had bcen badly damaged.
6825. Used by pemmission.
Despite the fact that most of Cat's Paw's vehicles had been shaken
up during the dogfight, nine were delivered to their drop zone, and they
Operation Gabriel,as it was called,was the first real offensive on the
began their assigned mission.
part of the 64th Commonwealth Legion since the invasion of Gustaviv's
Regret, Strong evidence exists to support the premise that General Gunn
had to browbcal Brigadier General Burke into leuting him initiate the
Gabriel raids,Burke had hesitated sofartobringon a generalengagement,
preferring to fall back and consolidate herforces, Gunn, on the other hand.
was a young firebrand.He maintained thata few properly delivered blows
would bring the TOG advancc up short, rather like a street fighter
bloodying his opponent's nose. He further believed that if a few elite units
wcre inserted behind enemy lines, they could make such a nuisance of
themselves that TOG would he forced to pull troops out of the front line
to guard captured facilities and search for the raiders.
When word arrived of the relief fleet's impcnding arrival. Gunn
ordered the Gabriel units into action without consulting Burkc. In a leller
he later wrote to his wife. Gunn said, I knew that I was putting my carcer
on the line by ordering those raids. Had my mcn failed to carry out their
objectives, Brigadicr General Burke would havc at the very least relieved
me of my command. At the worst, she could havc had me shot."
Fortunalely for Gunn, the Gabriel raids had exactly the effect they were
intended to havc.
Six captured facilities, including three spacc defense installations.
were destroycd, One Interceptor basc was so badly damaged that TOG
abandoned it rather than trying to repair it. Five full cohorts were pulled
out of the TOG front line to search for the Gabriel units,most of which.
by that time, had quietly slipped back across the front to rejoin their
comrades.
Some accounts name Operation Gabriel as the turning point of the
Gustaviv 's Regret campaign.

--- PAGE 56 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGD
IGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
GGGG
IMAO2
GAMESET-UP
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
The Interceptor rules are used for this scenario.
Elements of the 7lst Aerospace Transport Wing
Lay out the maps as illustrated. The Commonwealth player enters  Angel 1: Piloring 6, Gunnery 6, SOT 4
the board from thc right edge of Map 3, during the movement phase of
Angel2:Piloting5,Gunery5,SOT4
Turn I.The TOG forces enter the board from the left edge of Map 1.
between hex rows O4xx and 1Oxx, during the movement phase of Tum 1.
Penetrator 1:Piloting 5,Gumnery 4, SOT 6
Penerrator2:Pilotng3,Gumnery2SOT5lsno mounqD
Peacekeeper 1:Piloting 5.Gunnery 4.SOT 6
Pedcekeeper2:Piloting5,Gunnery 5,SOT6nront amo
Gabriel Unit Cat 's Paw
First Company.S/64th Commonwealth Legion
Captain James Seward, Commander
Leadership Rating:5
Troop Quality:Elite
Ist Medium Gray Amor Platoon
3 Liberator medium grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
MAP2
MAP 1
MAP3
3rd Annored Infantry Platoon
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
3bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Elements of Second Company.8/64th Commonwealth Legion
Sergeant Uruaa Klin, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
Troop Quality:Elite
TOGFORCES
3rd Light Grav Amor Platoon
Elements of the 3l4th Heavy Carrier Wing
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
GladinsI:Piloting 5,Gmery4.SOT6
Gladins a: Piloting 3.Gunnery 2, SOT5
GAMELENGTH
Marriobarbrlus I:Piloring 5,Gunnery 4,SOT 6
Combat continues until the Commonwealth corvettes are destroyed
Martobarbulus 2:Piloring 5.Gunnery 4,SOT6
or exit the left edge of Map I.
Spiculuml:Piloring5.Gumnerny4,SOT7
Spiculu 2.Piloring5.Gunnery5.SOT7
SPECIAL RULES
Pilum1:Piloting5.Gunnery 4.SOT6
Grav Vehicles
Pilum 2:Piloring5.Gunnery4,SOT 6
The grav vehicles take no active part in this scenario. However,six of
the twelve vehicles must be listed on cach of the corvettes record sheets.
Enter the vehicles being carried in the weapons sections of each ship s
damage gnid. Any time intemal damage produces a Weapon Destroyed"
result, roll 1Dio. If the result is 6-1o, apply the damage normally.If the
result is 1-5,the damage destroys one ofthe grav vehicles, Of course, if a
corvelte is destroyed all vehicles it is carrying are also destroyed, Keep a
record of which grav vehicles have bcen destroyed, as the survivors of this
scenario will be the Commonwealth force in Scenario 12.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
TOG Decisive Victory: No grav vehicles exit the board.
TOG Substantial Victory:One to four grav vehicles exit the board.
TOG Marginal Victory: Five grav vehicles exit the board.
Draw: Six gray vchicles exit the board.
Commonwealth Marginal Victoryi Seven to nine grav vehicles
exit the board.
Commonwealth Substantial Victory: Ten toeleven grav vehicles
exit the board.
Commonwealth Decisive Victory: All twelve grav vehicles exit
the board.

--- PAGE 57 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGGO
IOHHT
LAOT
ANGELCLASSTRANSPORTCORVETTE
Shields:
Class: Corvette
Bow
Variable
Right Front
Mass:3.417 tons
Variable
Cost:24.058.000
Right Rear
Variable
Lefi Front
Variable
Engines:
Left Rear
Variable
Center Engine Rating
5.000
Sterm
Variable
Left Engine Rating
5.000
Armor:
Right Engine Rating
5.000
110
Thrust:
Right Front
80
Allocatable Powerrnlll
859
Right Rear
06
ntione
Streamlining:
SPA
Left Front
80
Anti-Grav:
Left Rear
06
Tank Bay:
Stem
6 275-ton tanks
100
Crew:
Esuodcam
Passengers:
18 (6 three-man tank crews)
Location
Range
FTL Capable:
Yes
2ILOVOMALFBB
Type
Turret #
2-3
46
7-10
11-15
Cargo:
20 tons
MDC 10
1010
10
10
AIA HOMAMAIAO
Turret Hex:
Front
MDC 10
10
10
10
MDC10
10
10
10
Autoloading Hard Point
Safeguard-3

--- PAGE 58 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGOOGGOGGGO
GGGG
TORAISE THEDEVIL
For use with CENTURION. Also uses Interceptor.
The rest of that battle is kind ofa blur.Iknow we started shooting up
SNEAKATTACK
the Comm carriers and peds, but they didn't really stick around for long.
Only long enough to set fire to the repair sheds and shoot up a couple of
Excerpt from letter wnitten by Sergeant Karl Uhl, 3rd Century.9/3794th
the fighters, By the time we got organized, the Comms pulled a disap-
Strike Legion
pearing act.An Aeneasfrom First Platoontried tofollow them.We picked
up his wreck the next morning.
I know that I can get into trouble for saying this, but don't ever let
I found out later that there were a half dozen raids like that all over
anyone tell you how glorious life is in the TOG armed forces. In particular.
our AO that night. It must have really honked off the brass to have an
don't let them tell you how safe and easy garrison duty is.There's nothing
activc armored unit operating behind our lines, because that was the end
safe or easy about about it, Our outfit had bcen at the broken end of a bottle
of our cushy garison detail, Three days after the raid, we were back out
since we landed. The brass thought it'd be nice if they pulled us out of the
beating the bushes for the Comms.
line and gave us a nice quict garrison detail for awhile. And, for awhile
it was.
SITUATION:7FEBRUARY 6819.
We sat around the fighter base east of Rose Thom, patching up the
CALAMANDERAIRBASE2SKILOMETERS
tanks, rooting gremlins out of the systems, and taking life nice and easy.
Centurion Levine even let us go into town once in awhile.That wasn't too
EASTOFROSETHORN
much fun, though.Thelocals were really hostile,and mostofthe ones who
would have anything to do with us were such boot-licking toadies that we
After serving as point unit for their manus since the initial landings
couldn't stand to be around them. Even the town joygirls tumed up their
on Gustaviv's Regret, the Third Century of the 9/3794th Strike Legion
noses al us, So, most of us spent our time on the base.
was rotated off the line for a period of rest and reorganization. Assigned
News from the front was scarce. We heard all sorts of rumors about
as a securily element for the captured air base at Calamander, the 3/9/
3794thcxpcctcdnomajortrouble.
official, That's why, when we heard the rumor thal a Commonwealth
In the early moming hours of 7 February, Gabriel Unit Cat's Paw
relief flect was on its way to Regret, nobody really placed any faith in it.
smashed through the base's perimeter fence and opened fire.on its
When word came down fom Manus to cancel leavcs and to increase
defenders, The stunned TOG vehicle crews were taken completely by
security, we treated it as just another panic move by command.
surprise, wasting valuable minutes staring in utter disbelief while the
As it turned out, we should have paid closer attention to the
marauding Commonwealth tanks ran rampant inside the compound.
scutlebunt.
What littledefensethe TOG garrison did musterwas overwhelmed by the
I was on watch that night, sitting on the commander's cupola of my
heavier Commonwealth force.
Lupis light grav. Suddenly, I heard the high-pitched screech of a grav
When the smoke had cleared, Cat's Paw had destroyed the air basc s
drive under maximum acceleration. Before I could say or do anything, a
repair facility and control bunker.Two of the six Interceptors currently on
shell hit thc camier. Now, you'll hear pcople say that their tank got hit by
theground had beendestroyed or badlydamaged.The3/9/3794thhad lost
this kind of round, or that kind of missile, but until you look at the holes
twoof its surviving Aeneas light tanks and one of its surviving Lupis light
in the armor, there's no way of telling what hit you, and even then you
grav APCs,Cat's Paw escaped with only minor damage,and survived to
can't always be sure.Aboutall youcan really tell is thedifferencebetween
raid several other rear-area bases before retuming to Commonwealth
a laseramissile,and acannonround,butthekindof slug? Gimme a break.
lines
Whatever kind of round it was,the concussion knocked me right off
the turret; not just the cupola, the whole blasted turret. I laid there for a
couple of scconds,trying tofigureout ifThad any broken bones, when this
Liberator comes screaming past my grav.Icould see the TC standing up
in his hatch, swinging this enormous turret to line up with my nose. The
next thing I knew,I was inside my own turret, listening to the snap from
the shots passing overhead. I honcstly don't know how I got there. I can
only figure that I must have dived, head first, through the cupola hatch
while he was still lining up on me.
Well, Johanssen was yelling and trying to get the drives started.
Blake was yelling and trying to get the shields up, and I was yelling and
trying to figure out what was going on. Right then another Liberator
crossed our bows,and Blake clipped him with a Gaussround. Idon't think
the Comm even felt our pop-gun hin him, because he kept bearing down
on one of the fighters parked out on the tarmac.Blake fired again, and hit
him again, before I could slop him. It doesn't do for a light APC to be
calling a Liberatlor's attention to itsclf, especially if it has a jury-rigged
patch in its hull.

--- PAGE 59 [OCR] ---
GGGL
IGGGG
GAMESET-UP
The Centurion rulesare used forthis scenario. Interceptor rules are
Calamander Airbase Security DetachmentHHAA
used when applying damage to the base's fighters.
Centurion Gerry Levine, Commander
Lay out the maps as illustrated. Place a building counter in each of
Leadership Rating:3
the hexes marked B.These buildings are all three levels high and have
Troop Quality: Regular
40 AP.Place Spiculum fighter counters m each of the hexes marked "F."
4 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
These represent the fighiers parked on the runway apron when the raid
2 bounce infantry squads w/mortars
began,The TOG player seis up first. He places his units in any non-
building, non-fighter hex anywhere within the square defined by Hexes
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
2007 (Map 1), 0507 (Map 1). 0506 (Map 2), and 2006 (Map 2).
All units of Gabriel Unit Cat s Paw that survived Scenario II
The Commonwealth forces enter the right edge of Map 2 during the
movement phasc ofTun l.The Commonwealthplayer automatically has
Historical Force
initiative on Turm l.
Gabriel Unit Cat's Paw
First Company,8/64th Commonwealth Legion
Captain James Seward, Commander
Leadership Rating: 5
Troop Quality:Elite
Ist MediumGray Amor Platoon
2 Liberator medium grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
2 Spartius medium gray APCs
2 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
MAP1
MAP2
3rd Amored Infantry Platoon
3 Sparius medium grav APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Sergeant Uruaa Klin, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
Troop Quality:Elite
3rd Light Grav Armor PlatoonYao
BUILDINGS
2 Wolverine light grav tanks
OINTERCEPTOR COUNTER
In the actual engagement, Cat's Paw was short on ammunition (see
TOG FORCES
Special Rule: Ammunition Shortage).
Elements of Third Century,9/3794th Strike Legion
Sergeant Michos Aniensis, Commander
GAMELENGTH
Leadership Rating:3
Combat continues until the Commonwealth units haveleftthe board
Troop Quality:Regular
or have been destroyed
Ist Light Grav Amor Platoon
3 Acncas light grav tanks
SPECIAL RULES
3rd Amored Infantry Platoon
Ammunition Shortage
2 Lupis light grav APCs
If the Commonwealth player failed to achieve at least a marginal
2 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
victory in Scenario Io, the Cornmonwealth forces in this scenario will be
short on ammunition. Roll 1Dlo for each gun or missile launchcr on cach
Commonwealth vehicle in this scenario, and consult the Available
Ammunition table to determine how many rounds of each type are
available for each ballistic weapon and missile launcher.Note: A vehicle
may not cary more missiles than its launchers can hold. Extra missiles
may not be transferred to other vehicles.

--- PAGE 60 [OCR] ---
AVAILABLEAMMUNITIONTABLE
Ammo Type
Die
Anti-
Roll
H.H. Personnel SMLM
HEAP
APDS
15
10
12
2-3
46
7-9
Fighters
Allof the Interceptors on therunway are Spiculum medium fighters.
Fill out Interceptor Record Sheets for each of them, and record damage
there. These Interceplors are shut down (shields inactive), and may not
attack during this scenanio.
A grav vchicle may inflict damage on a fighter by ramming it.In this
case. the fighter takes damagc cqual to ten times the tank's currcnt
velocity. The ramming vehicle suffers damage equal to ten tines its
current velocity. Damage is applied to the side of the fighter struck and is
divided between the front and bottom of the grav unit. Apply the damage
straight across the rows until all the damage points have been applied.
A fighter is destroyed if one of the hcavy black circles (Plant
Destroyed," "SLD Destroyed," or "Structural Collapse") is crossed out.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Consult the Victory Point table below to determine the victor.
VICTORY POINTTABLE
Victory Points
Earned
Condition
+40 points
Each destroyed Interceplor
Each undestroyed Interccptor that took any
+10 points
intermal damage
Each base building destroyed
T: +30 points
+20 points
Each TOG tank destroyed
+10 points
Each TOG APC destroved
Each TOG infantry casualty
+ I point
40points
Each surviving Interceptor without intemal darnage
Each surviving base building
l2-30 points
-25 points
Each Commonwealth mcdium tank destroyed
Each Commonwcalth light tank destroyed
onu:-20 points
-10 points
Each Cormmonwealth APc destroyed
Each Commonwealth infantry casualty
sfihe ie-I point
Decisive Commonwealth Victory: 4oo or more points
Substantial Commonwealth Victory: 250 to 399 points
Marginal Commonwealth Victory: 100 to 249 points
Draw:-99 to 99 points
Marginal TOG Victory:-249 to-100 points
Substantial TOG Victory:-399 to -250 points
Decisive TOG Victory: -4oO or fewer points

--- PAGE 61 [OCR] ---
GGGG
GGI
RELIEFFLEET
For use with LEVIATHAN
an MaF tantlli m rtmn arti h Ved
RUNNING THE BLOCKADE
planning to do whcn wc cane under fire. When a TOG Bantha Class
frigate swung across our bows,wetreated it to a spinal-mount round.The
hit showed up on the tactical as a brief red pulsc, but what we saw on yis-
-Excerpt from the personal joumal of Captain Jennelle Forre, Com-
mag was more impressive. The nickel-iron projectile hit the Bantha just
manding Officer of the RLSAnnetam
abafi the bridge, shattering the armor plates where her name, Percussor,
Was painted. At the time, I had a private chuckle at the irony of it.
As soon as the word came down that TOG had invaded Gustaviv's
Percussor is Galatin for one who strikes or beats. The striker struck.
Regrel, CAF command started throwing together a relief force. They
Well, it was funny at the time.
knew that thc 64th was a green legion made upof training cadres, bits and
That hit seemed to make the TOG captain a little angry.He swung
pieces of shattered units, and local recruits. General Gunn himself was
around and charged us like an enraged KessRith. We pumped two more
untried as a legion commander, and Constance Burke hadn't fully
spinal-mount rounds into him before we were forced to maneuver or be
recovered mentally from the loss of her arm. The only reliable com-
rammed, As we passed him., we gave the Toggie a full broadside. He
manding officer wc had at Gustaviv's Regret was Commodore Del a'v.
replied in kind I imagine that it looked like a Tri-Dee batle between
and there is only so much one can do with naval assets.
ancient sailing ships. We hammered at each othcr for twenty minutes
It took a while to assemble the reinforcements for thc 64th. We knew
before the Pride of Orion came to our assistahce. Together, we poured
we had to hurry, or the only thing we'd succeed in doing would be
enough fire into the Percussor to destroy any two ships, but he retumed
breaking up the TOG victory celebration.
fire like our guns weren't even there. Eventually, we crippled his drives
Commodore Douglass made the decision to go in hot. He wanted to
so badly that hc could barely maintain control. He lost his main engines
arrivedeep in thc Gustaviv system and make as fasta run throughthe TOG
and had to switch over to emergency power. That's when he switched off
blockade as possible. That called for somc pretty tricky navigation, not
his maneuvering lights and turmed on his white flashers.The Pride was in
only for the individual ships,butfor the entire flcct. If just one ship arived
bctter shape than we were,and so they left us to accept the TOG frigate's
off-larget. it could be a real disaster. Assuming that we all made it intact.
surrender. There's no way to describe the feeling I got when the TOG
we'd have to dump speed like crazy, or we'd overshoot the transport's
captain came aboard and handed me his sword.
drop points and have to swing around for another try. I told Douglass at
As soon as we put a contingent of Marines aboard the Percussor,we
the time that he'd be lucky if a quarter of his command didn't crash into
tumcd back tothe fight, but it was aimost over by chen. I looked at the IFF
each other during the in-run. Doug just laughed and said that he'd take the
display on the tactical and saw that we had lost two transports and two
cost of the repairs out of the pay of any captain who had a collision.
other ships. I later found out that the N'Cath Co M mn sacrificed herself
We phased in just outside Frost Locker's orbit and fired upthe sub-
to save our flagship. The Co M rin's captain, a KessRith named Sahk
light drives.The Toggies came outtomcet us.I have to givethose boys
Marrarh, ordered his little destroyer to ram the TOG flagship.
credit. Thcy really know how to fight their ships. They should-look
The landing operation was fairly smooth. A few fighters kept us
how long they 've been doing it.
busy, but they didn't amount to much. Meanwhile,I've just mounted thal
The Amvietam was assigned to covcr the transports starboard flank.
TOG captain's sword over the desk in my quarters.
The Toggies hit us from the pori flank,and so we were one of the last ships
engaged. As a result, I had a little more time to think about what I was
SITUATION:27FEBRUARY6819
GUSTAVIV'SREGRETSYSTEM
The arrival of the Commonwealth relief fleet camc as no great
surprise to the TOG naval units operating in the Gustaviv's Regret
system. Irs arrival point, however, did. The Commonwealth leet ap-
peared outside the orbit of Frost Locker (sixth planet in the Gustaviv
system) and immediately began driving toward Gustaviv's Regret. The
surviving ships of Task Force Temerarius immediately scrambled to
cngage the new arrivals.
In what seemed to be a replay of the TOG fleet's arrival, the
Commonwcalth fleet sent its heavy ships to engage the defenders, leaving
protection of the transponis to its destroyers. This time, the tactic paid off.
The TOG ships slowed to cngage the Comnonwealth warships, allowing
the transports to go unmolested for long minutes, Eventually, a few TOG
destroyers and frigates broke away from the battle to go after the transporis.
They were met by the Commonwcalth ships that had stayed with the lightly
amed troopships. In a series of brief, sharp scuffles, the Commonwealth
destroyers and frigates tumed back the TOG ships, allowing the transports
to proceed to the drop points without further harassment.
61

--- PAGE 62 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGOGOGGGGGGO
COMMONWEALTH FORCES
GAME SET-UP
Ships of the 43120th Defense squadron that survived Scenarios 2
The Leviathan rules are used for this scenario.
Lay out the maps as illustrated. The 3032nd Carrier Patrol Squadron
and 7.plus elements of the 3032nd Carrier Patrol Squadron.
enters the board from the right edge of Map2 during the movement phasc
3o32nd Carrier Patrol SquadronFlhy
of Turn 1.The 43120th enters the top cdgc of Map2during the movement
phase of Tum 4.The TOG forces enter the board from the left edge of Map
Commodore Archibald Douglass, Commander
I, during the movement phase of Tum 1.
Leadership Rating: 3
RLS Comnor.a Carthage Class cruiser
1 Fluering Petal flight
I Awenger flight
MAP2
MAP1
1 Penetrator flight
RLS Pride of Orion,a Valiant Class frigate
1Ginardian night
1 Penefrator flight
RLS Fearsome,a Valiant Class frigate
I Cheetah flieht
I Space Gull flight
RLSN'Cath Co M mn (Shining Fury).an Ajar Class destroyer
I Cheetah squadron
TOGFORCES
RLS Annetam an Ajax Class destroyer
All TOG ships thal survived Scenarios 2 and 7.
1 Venmura squadron
6Mound Class transports
Possible TOG Reinforcements
If fewer than one TOG cruiser or battleship and three smaller ships
Possible Commonwealth Reinforcements
are stillavailableforthe battle,the Varro has bccn scntas a reinforcement.
If the Commonwealth player won Scenario 8, he mighi receive as
If more than threc ships of the 43120th survived Scenarios 2 and 7.
reinforcements ships not occupied with Marine strikes elsewhere. If he
won a Substantial Victory.add the Ashbourne to the 4312Oth, If he won
(including theAshbowrneand the Esser),add the Srar Killer to the TOG
fleet. If both conditions are met, add both ships, 
a Decisivc Victory.also add the Esser to the 43120th.
INs Varro,a Syracuse Class cruiser
RiS Ashhoure,a Valianr Class fngate
e Gladius flight
I Gudrdian flight
I Penetrator flight
L1Spicuumflight
1 Verrm light
RlS Essex,a Lexington Class destroyer carrier
I Avenger group
INsSrarKillera Fulgur Class destroyer
I Gaul flight
2Spicaemsquadronsawptumoinrnoeau
1 Defensor squadron    /R d   o to
I Space Gull flight
I Cheetah flight
1Onder squadron
Historical Force
Historical Force
Task Force Temerarius, 20203lst Harasser Squadron
43120th Defense Sguadron
Commodore Joseph Kuroda, Commander
Fleet Captain Del a'v, Commander
Lcadership Rating: 5
Leadership Rating:5
All ships and fighters are fully repaired.
All ships and fighters are fully repaired
INs Temerarins.a Mars Class battleship
RLS Agic,a Vitak Class cruiser
2 Gladius squadrons
RLS Red Tailan Exeter Class destroyer
2 Spicu/um squadrons
2 Cheerah squadrons
1 Satum squadron
2 Guardian sguadrons
1 Defensor squadron
RLS Duchess Katherine,an Ajar Class Destroyer
INS Percussor,a Bantha Class frigate
TAvenger squadron
I Spicwlum flight
T Gladius Night
3032nd Carrier Patrol Sguadron
INS Firestorm, a Bantha Class frigate
Listed abovc.
2 Sica fliehts
INs Varro,a Syracuse Class cruiser
GAMELENGTH
Combat continues until all the transports have either dropped their
I Gladius flighi
I Spiculum flight
troops or been destroyed.
IVeralum flight

--- PAGE 63 [OCR] ---
SPEOIALRULES
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Capital Ship Repair
The Commonwealth'player must maneuver his transports to the
Enough time has passed that surviving ships from the two original
ifli Interface and drop their payloads.
squadrons may repair any damage to internal componcnts that does not
The TOG player must prevent the Commonwealth player from
rcquire the use of a repair facility (that is, anything but "Bay Destroyed,"
achieving his victory conditions.
"Turret Factor Destroyed,""Spinal Mount Destroyed.""Spine Crack."or
Both sides should inflict as much damage on the opposing fleet as
"Structural Collapse"). Roll IDlo for each section of damaged annor.
possible.
That many points of armor may be jury-repaired in each section.
Use the Victory Points table to determine how many victory points
Any ships that were sent back for repairs immediately after Scenario
cach side has accumulated.
2 are fully repaired and available for this scenario. Note: "Spine Cracks"
and *Structural Collapse" damage results cannot be repaired in time for
VICTORY POINTSTABLE
this scenario. Any ship sent back for repair of this type of damage is not
Ships Destroved
sdrnoninA
Victory Points Earned
available.
Battleship
4 points
Transports
Cruiser
The Mound Class transports are equivalent to the Carrus Class
Frigate
transports in Scenario 2.Use the statistics ofthose vessels when filling out
jinoa2points
Destroyer
Vessel Record Sheets on the Mounds mmn
h dm ml point
Transport (loaded)
In order to drop its troops, a transport must enter any hex of the
Transport (empty)
.5 point
interface zone and decelerate to a full stop, with its bow facing the planet
Fighter Group
.6 point
(direction 5 or6).A transportmustremain inthat position foronefull tum
oubog al guo
Fighter Flight
.3 point
after it arrives, while its troops disembark.Troops are dropped following
Fighter Squadron
.l point
combat of the motionless turn. Dropped troops do not appcar on the board
Each shipload of troops dropped
and cannot be damaged in this scenario. Ships dropping troops are
u4points
assumed lo be using cnough thrust to maintain station-keeping, and so
their orbits will not decaynlll
Total the victory points earned by each side. Subtract the TOG
Ships engaged in dropping troops may not fire their forward-facing
player's total from the Commonwealth player's total, then use the
wcapons, and they must lower their forward shiclds.
following table to determine the victor.
Thc only way to prevent a transport from deploying its troops is to
destroy the transpont before it can do so, n-mor m i wu
Commonwealth Decisive Victory: 24 or more points
Gravity Well
Commonwealth Substantial Victory:10 to 23.9 points
As pcr normal rules,any unpowered ship that enters the gravity well
Commonwealth Marginal Victory:3 to 9.9 points
(hex rew 13xx and below on Map I) will be immediately trapped in a
Draw:-2.9 to 2.9points
decaying orbit. See the Leviathan rules, p. 32, for details on the effects
TOG Marginal Victory:-9.9 to-3 points
of the gravity well.
TOG Substantial Victory:-23.9to-10 points
TOG Decisive Victory:-24orfewer points

--- PAGE 64 [OCR] ---
DUSTCLOUDS
SITUATION:02MARCH6819.TROSOS,WEST
UNDERTHE WEATHER
OFBARTON'SFIRESEA
Excerpt frorn a letter dated 5 March 6819.written by Optio Dobson
Gayle,First Century.3/3794th Strike Legion
Along with the reinforcements brought in by the relief flect.
Brigadier General Burke scemed to receive a new will to fight. After a
quick,intenscplanning session,Burkcordered an attack,thefirst sincethe
Gustaviy's Regret is a prely mixed-up planet. The most unusual
initial TOG landings.id ol 
feature of a rather unusual world is a place the locals call Barton's Fire
The plan was a simple one. Severe winds and thunderstorms were
Sea.The Fire Sea is actually a shallow valley into whichflows the lava of
being predicted for the area west of Barton's Fire Sea,storms that would
several surrounding volcanoes. I didn't have a window seat on the in-run.
pick up greatquantitiesof thefine gritty soil of the area and push it forward
but they tell mc you can see it from orbit.
in dense clouds. Burke's plan called for thc 1/64th Commonwealth
As you might expect, that much volcanic activity in one place has
Legion, supported by elements of the 219th B'ekkal Infantry Regiment.
brought up large deposits of G-A ore and trocobolt, which makes the area
to move under the cover of these slorms to Trosos, a large mining and
very attractive to mining operations. Unfortunalely, that much volcanic
refining community on the western shores of the Fire Sea. There they
activity also produces immense quantities of fine, gritty dust.
would attack the TOG garison in hopes of driving them out of the area.
This dust is the most insidious substance it has ever been my
The storm would keep the TOG air support fighters grounded, while the
misfortune to encounter.It gets into everything. Your clothing,your hair.
blowing volcanic dust would blind and confuse sensors.tpdn
your nose. You can't leave your shelter without a dust mask and goggles
In the early morming of 2 March, the 1/64th was in position to attack
over your face, because the dust will choke and blind you within minutes.
Trosos.Before they could launch their assault, the task force was spotted
The mess halls are equipped with static-chargc doors, but the dust still
by a TOG sentry.who sounded the alarm.Instead of a surprise assault,the
manages to get into your food. IfIever get off this forsaken dust-ball, I'll
I/64th was faced with a deadly game of hide-and-seek in the billowing
probably be twenty kilos heavier just from the dirt I've swallowed.
dust clouds.
We had only been in our ncw post for a few weeks when we were told
Afterseveral hours ofconfused fighting.the TOG garrison withdrew
to secure all our vehicles for bad weather. The meteorological officers
northward, leaving resource-rich Trosos to the Commonwealth.
were predicting a severe wind storm that would cary with it great clouds
ofyou guessed it-blowing dust.We worked frantically,trying get all
our fragife gear under cover. The muzzle and tube covcrs thal we usually
used to protect the Gauss and laser cannons were all but useless against
the type of dust that we had to contend with. We managed to scavenge
some plastic tarps from the miners and used thousand-kilometer-per-hour
tape to secure them over the delicate equipment. I really hated the
ecessity ofcovering our weapons like that,but if themetoffice wasright.
there was nothing else we could do. Even one grain of gritty metallic dust
in the delicateinner workings of the Gauss or laser cannons meant there
would be a good chance that the guns wouldn't fire. I realize thal a thin
piece of polypropylene isn't much of a barricr to firing a 45-kilo Gauss
slug or a megajoulelaser pulse,but it simply didn'tfeel right to tie plastic
over our guns likc that.
We had just finished securing the covers on Billings tank when the
storm hit. The metoffice said to expcei high winds, but there was no way
to anticipatethe sheerferocity of the storm. The force of the wind knocked
Petrowski completely off his feet. My goggles were scoured so badly by
the blowing grit that they became opaque in a matter of seconds, We
hoisted Petrowski to his fect and began struggling toward the cover of our
hut when thc howling of the wind took on a ncw pitch. Jat remarked how
much the wind sounded like an overstressed grav drive. All at once, we
heard the crack of a Gauss cannon firing.
Suddenly.a static-laden shout of panic rang in my earpiece. One of
the sentries on our southerm flank had spotted Commonwealth tanks
charging out of the blowing dust We were under attack.

--- PAGE 65 [OCR] ---
GGGGD
GAME SET-UP
Force A
First Company,1/64th Commonwealth Legion
The Centurion rules are used for this scenario.
Lay out the maps as illustrated. Place building counters in the hexes
Major Joseph T, Wilson, Commander
marked B.t These buildings all have Iwo levels and 30 AP.Thc TOG
Leadership Rating: 5
player sets up first, on Map 4, using Hidden Units (Centurion, p. 39).
Troop Quality:Elite
Infantry sguads may set up inside the buildings. The Commonwealth
Ist Heavy Gray Amor Platoon
forces enter the left edge of Map I during the movement phase of Turn 1.
3 Deliverer heavy grav tanks
2nd Medium Grav Armor Platoon
3 Liberator medium grav tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
00
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
MAP4
MAP1
Second Company,/64th Commonwealth Legion
Captain Fletcher Waterson, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
Troop Quality: Regular
BUILDINGS
Ist Light Grav Armor Platoon
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
TOG FORCES
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
First Century. 3/3794ih Strike Legion
3 bounce infantry squads w/mortars
Centurion Yip Myl Sen, Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Force B
Troop Quality: Regular
First Company, L64th Commonwealth Legion
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
Major Joscph T. Wilson, Commander
I Trajan heavy grav tank
Leadership Rating: 5
2nd Medium Gray Amor Platoon
Troop Quality: Elite
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3rd Light Grav Armor Platoon
2 Deliverer heavy gray tanks
3 Aeneas light grav tanks
2nd Medium Gray Armor Platoon
3 Liberator medium gray tanks
Second Century,3/3794th Strike Legion
3rd Armored Infaniry Platoon
Centurion Alice Varre, Conmander
3 Spartius mcdium gray APCs
Leadership Rating: 4
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
UHOJ
Troop Ouality: Rcgular
Ist Armored Infantry Platoon
Second Company.1/64th Commonwealth Legion
3 Lupis light grav APCs
Captain Fletcher Waterson, Commander
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Leadership Rating: 4
2nd Anmored Intantry Platoon
Troop Quality:Regular
I Romulus medium grav APC
Ist Light Grav Amor Platoon
I bounce infantry squad w/TVLGs
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
Ensod.di
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
2 Spartius medium grav APCs
Roll IDio and subtract the number of transports destroyed in
2 bounce infantry squads w/mortars
Scenario 13, then consult the Commonwealth Forces table todetermine
thc cxact nature of the Commonwealth force.
Force C
First Company,1/64th Commonwealth Legion
Major Joseph T,Wilson, Commander
COMMONWEALTH FORCESTABLE
Leadership Rating:5
Die Roll
Force Used
TroopQuality:Elite
0-2
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3-5
1 Deliverer heavy grav tank
6-8
2nd Medium Grav Annor Platoon
9-10
3 Liberator medium grav tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
2 Spartius medium gray APCs
2 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs

--- PAGE 66 [OCR] ---
Second Company, 1/64th Commonwcalth Legion
Elements of Second Company, L/64th Commonwealth Legion
Captain Fletcher Waterson, Commander
Captain Fletcher Waterson, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
Leadership Rating:4
Troop Ouality: Regular
Troop Quality:Regular
Ist Light Armored Platoon
Ist Light Grav Amor Platoon
3 Wolverine light gray tanks
3 Wolverine light gray tanks
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
2nd Squad,2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
2 Spartius medium gray APCs
1Spartius medium gray APC
2bounceinfantry squads w/mortars
Lbounce infantry sguad w/mortars
Force D
Historical Force
Elements of First Conpany,1/64th CommonwealthLegion
Forcc B was the historical force for the Coinnionwealth in this baltle
Captain William Harriman, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
GAMELENGTH
Troop Quality: Regular
Comnbat continues until all units of one side have been destroyed or
2nd Medium Arnor Platoon
are forced to withdraw
3 Liberator medium gray tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
SPECIAL RULES
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
Withdrawal
Units on both sides use the Distant Fire Special Rule: With-
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
drawal: Individual Withdrawal.If a Commonwealth vehicle is forced
to withdraw,it must exit over the left edge of Map I,If a TOG vehicle is
forced to withdraw, it must exit over the right edge of Map 4.
Dust and Wind Effects
Because of the dense clouds of dust vehicles are limited to aten-hex
line-of-sight. Infantry are limited to a six-hex line-of-sight.
All To-Hit Numbcrsreceive an automatic-I modifier.This modifier
affects painting lasers as well as weapons.
The spccd limit of all terrain is reduced by So percent because of the
dust storm's blinding effect on TS&R radar systems. All Piloring skill
rolls are made with an automatic -l modifier to the Target Number.
Smoke is dispcrsed almost immediately by the high winds, There-
fore, only apply a-1 modifierfor firing through smoke.There is no speed
limit modifier because of smoke during this scenario.
VICTORYCONDITIONS
Decisive Commonwealth Victorv: All TOG units destroyed or
forced to withdraw.No more than five Commonwealth tanks, APCs,and
squads lost.
Substantial Commonwealth Victory: All TOG units destroyed or
forced to withdraw. Six to nine Commonwealth units are lost.
Marginal Commonwealth Victory: All TOG units destroyed or
forced to withdraw. A least four active Commonwealth units remain on
the board.
Draw: Neither side has four active units on the board.
Marginal TOG Victory: All Commonwealth units destroyed or
forced to withdraw. Ar least four active TOG units rcmain on the board.
Suhstantial TOG Victory: All Commonwealth units destroyed or
forced to withdraw.Six to nine TOG units are lost.
Decisive TOG Victory: All Commonwealth units destroyed or
forced to withdraw.No morethan five TOG tanks,APCs,and squadslost.
66

--- PAGE 67 [OCR] ---
GGGGGD
GGGG
BACKBONEATLAST
For use with LEVIATHAN,INTERCEPTOR,and CENTURION
ANOUT-OF-CONTROLBATTLE
the comm-lech he talkcd to told him that our boys managed to push the
Toggie Navy back into the asteroid field after some pretty intense
fighting. That seems only fair. They did the same for our guys back in
Excerpt of a letter dated 22 March 6819, written by Scrgcant-Major
October.
Cathcrine Parks
When the fighting subsided, we had gained back a lot of the ground
we lost in January and February.Somc of the reporters here are saying that
Dear-
it was a stroke of genius on Burke's part to disguise a major offensivc as
Things here on Regrel have been very busy and confuscd.
a series of patrols. Well, don't let them fool you. That offensive was
For two wecks following the arrival of the relief fleet we didn't see
nothing but an accident.
a single Toggie. It looked like they'd packed up and gone home. Of
coursc. we kncw better, We ran into the occasional straggler or refugee
SITUATION:17MARCH6819
who gave us the impression that the Praetorian Guard and Caesar himself
were right behind him. That put everyone intoa panic,but it tumed out to
EASTOFTHEKAMARFOREST
be nothing more than a rumor. probably just a couple of locals tumed
L.OOOKILOMETERSFROMALIST
bandit, so everyone calmed down again.
Then, one bright, sunny moming, Captain Moretti announced that
Heartened by the success of the 1/64th in the Battle of Trosos,the
we were going to be sending out patrols. I tried to explain to him that if
Commonwealth coinmanders on Gustaviv's Regret began planning an
we sent out patrols, and if those patrols ran into anything, whatever they
all-out offensive. Several patrols were sent intothe area around Alist and
ran inlo was going to get mad and shoot al us. Morctti lost his temper at
the Kamar Forest, Instructed to gather information on the disposition and
me and told me that since I was such a military genius,I got to lead the first
strength of the TOG forces in the area, most of these patrols returned
patrol. He said that the orders had come from Battalion, who got them
cmpty-handed. Little trace of the enemy could be found.
from Brigade, who got them from Legion, and if I wanted to argue with
Then, at about noon on 17 March, a patrol of Wolverine light gray
anyone, I should go and see Brigadier General Burke. The whole time his
tanks picked up unidentified sensor readings. They had found most of a
face was changing from pink.to red, to almost purple.I was afraid that he
hcavy grav ccntury grounded in a clearing. The Cormmonwealth patrol
was going to have a stroke. I figured that if I wanted to keep him out of
leaderquickly radioed forartillery supportand reinforcements.Centurion
sick bay and myself out of the stockade, I'd beer back off and take out
Maximus Eric Sykes sent out his own call for help, believing the
the patrol like he said.
Wolverines to be the point unit of a Commonwealth counter-offensive.
Our assigned AO took us about fifty klicks beyond where the front
Both sides rushed reinforcements into the area. What began as a
lines were supposed to be.We were halfway to Alist and still hadn't seen
minor skimish became a major battle.
a blasted thing except burned tanks, ruined farms, and smashed-up
When thc fighi was over. the TOG legion had bcen forced to
houses. Fritz was getting antsy, He started spouting some nonsense about
withdraw to the positions it held in January.and the 64th rolled victori.
walking into a trap.I decided to extend our swecpa littlemore to sce if we
ously intoa liberated Alist.
could find anything. but there was no trace of the enerny.I was staning to
get a lintle spooked myself. That's when the call came in.g.
Battalion was recalling all its patrols and sending every available
unit to the Kamar Forest. A patrol had run into a heavy TOG unit and
things started escalating from there.
We got to the fighting about half an hour after we got the call. By
then,the whole thing was sofarout of control,it's a wonder that we linked
up with our own sidc, rathcr than hooking up with a TOG unit. Don't
laugh.T heard that a couple of chose new Horatius tanks swung into line
with one of our Liberator units, The Horatius has both of its Gauss
cannons mounted in the turret, just like the Liberator,and so it took awhile
for anyonetofigure out what was wrong with that picture.The way Iheard
it, our boys noticed the mistake first and proceeded to hammer the living
daylighis out of the Toggies, I don't know if the story is true or not.
especially since the battle computers should have been screaming bloody
murder, but I guess it could have happcncd in all that mcss.
By the time the TOG forces withdrew, everybody had gotten in on
the fun. About twenty minutes after we arrived, a TOG fighter strafed our
position, only to collect a tailfull of mass-driver rounds from an Avenger
that he didn't see. I understand that even the black-water boys got into the
act. Lieutenant Lentz said that our ships moved in to support what was
rapidly bccoming an offensive,only torun into the TOG fleet.He said that

--- PAGE 68 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGGGGOGGG
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGGG
MAP2
GAME SET-UP
This scenario uses all threc board game systems: Interceptor.
Centurion, and Leviathan.
Lay out the maps as illustrated in Distant Fire Special Rule: In-
tegrating Leviathan, Centurion, and Interceptor. Note which pair of
space maps is the Interceptor board and which is the Leviathan board.
The forces set up as follows:
Leviathan board: The Commonwcalth naval units enter the top left
edge of Leviathan Map 1 between Hexes 1601 and 2601 (inclusive)
during the movernent phase of Leviathan Tum 1. The TOG naval units
cnter the middle edge ofLeviathan Map2bctween Hexes 1014 and 2214
(inclusive), during the movemcnt phase of Leviathan Turn 2.
Interceptor board: Neither side begins the game with fighters
deployed on the Interceptor board, Integrating Interceptor, Centu-
rion, and Leviathan describes fighter launching.
Centurion board:The TOG player sets uphis 1/1/3794th before the
scenario begins. He may place these units anywhere he chooses on
Centurion Map 2. All of its grav tanks are grounded on the surface (bul
not in craters), His APCs may be grounded in cratcrs if they wish, but one
digging charge must beexpended forcach unit so grounded.Infantry units
may begin the game cither mounted or dismounted, as the TOG player
chooscs.
The Commonwealth2/10/64th entersthebottom edgeof Centurion
Map I during the Centurion movementphaseof Centurion/lnterceptor
Tum 1.
MAP1
The Commonwcalth 1/lo/G4th cntcrs the left edge of Centurion
Interceptor Units
MapI during the Centurion movement phase of Centurion/Interceptor
Units as available fromn the Leviathan board.
Tum 2.
The TOG 2/1/3794th enters the top cdge of Centurion Map 2
Centurion Units
during the Centurion movement phase of Centurion/lnterceptor
First Century,1/3794th Strike Legion
Centurion Maximus Eric Sykes, Commander
Tum3.a
TheTOG3/1/3794th enters the rightedge of Centurion Map2during
Leadership Rating:5
Troop Quality:Elite
the Centurion movemcnt phase of Centurion/lnterceptor Tum 6.
The Commonwealth3/1O/64th enters thebottom edge of Centurion
Ist Heavy Grav Ammor Platoon
3 Trajan heavy grav tanks
MapI during the Centurion movemcnt phase of Centurion/Interceptor
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
Turn 8.
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
TOGFORCES
Leviathan Units
Second Century,1/3794th Strike Legion
All naval units that survived Scenario 13
Centurion Willis Nilsson, Commander
Leadership Rating: 4
Historical Force
Troop Quality:Regular
Task Force Temerarius, 20203lst Harasser Squadron
Ist Medium Grav Armor Platoon
Navarchos Phim Kilby, Commander
3 Horatius medium grav tanks
Leadership Rating:4
2nd Light Grav Amored Platoon
All ships and fighters are fully repaired.
3 Aencas light grav tanks
INS Percussor.a Banrha Class frigate
I Spicu/um tlight
Elements of Third Century,1/3794th StrikeLegion
IGladins light
Optio Irvin Price,Commander
INs Firestorm,a Bantha Class fngate
Leadership Rating:3
2 Sica flights
Troop Quality: Regular
INS Varro,a Syracuse Class cruiser
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
I Gladius flight
3 Lupis light grav APCs
I Spiculum flight
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
1 Verwim flight
3 Artillery Fire Missions

--- PAGE 69 [OCR] ---
GGGGGGGGGGOGGGO
GGGGOGGGGGGOOOG
TAMN
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
GAMELENGTH
Levtathan Units
Combat continues until all units from one side have becn destroyed
All ships that survived Scenario 13, except the Mound Class trans-
or forced to withdraw.
ports.
SPECIALRULES
HSHTHAIOCGAAT2HH
Historical Force
Capital Ship Repair
All ships and fighters are fully repaired.'
Eighteen days have passed since Scenario 13. All capital ships may
repair any intertal damage that does not require the services of a shipyard
43120th Defense Squadron
or repair facility. Armor damage may not be repaired.
Fleet Captain Dcl a v, Comnander
Off-Board Support
Leadership Rating:5
Both Centurion forces may request artillery support. In addition, if
RLS Agica Vitak Class cruiser
a side has capital ships near enough, it may request naval fire support.
Remember that each side s Centurion commandcr may only makc one
3032nd Carrier Patrol Squadron
request per turn.See Distant Fire Special Rule: Off-Board Supportfor
Commodore Archibald Douglass, Commander
details.
Leadership Rating:3
Thor Satellites
RLS Connor.a Carrhage Class cruiser
The Thor satellites in Scenarios 6 and 7 are destroyed and are no
I Flunterine Petal flight
longer available by the time this battle takcs placc
LAvenger flight
Individual Withdrawal
I Penetrator light
Use the Distant Fire Special Rule: Withdrawal: Individual
RLS Pride of Orion, a Valiani Class frigate
Withdrawal in this scenario. If a unit fails its morale roll it must
1 Guardian flight
withdraw off the edge of the map from which it entered.
I Penetrdtor flight
RLS Fearsome.a Valiarut Class fnigate
VICTORY CONDITIONS
1 Cheetah flight
Decisive Victory,either side: All enemy units destroyed or forced
I Space Gull flight
to withdraw from all three boards, and at least one triendly unit still on the
RLS Antielam an Ajar Class destroyer
Centurion board.
Substantial Victory, either side: All enemy units destroyed or
forccd to withdraw from the Leviathan and Centurion boards, and at
Interceptor Units
least one fnendly unit still on the Centurion board.
Units as available from the Leviathan board.
Marginal Victory,either side: All enemy units destroyedor forced
to withdraw from the Centurion board, and at least one friendly unit still
Centurion Units
on the Centurion board.
Elements of Second Company.Io/64th Commonwealth Legion
Draw:All units from both sides destroyed or forced to withdraw
Master Sergeant Hazard Connel, Commander
from the Centurion board
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Light Gray Amor Platoon
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
First Company.lo/64th Commonwealth Legion
Captain W. S. Hanlon, Commander
Lcadership Rating:5
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Heavy Grav Ammor Platoon
3 Deliverer heavy grav tanks
2nd Medium Gray Amor Platoon
3 Liberator medium gray tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Sparius medium gray APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Elements of Third Company,iov64th Commonwealth Legion
Captain Marshall Brucker, Commander
Leadership Rating:3
Troop Quality:Green
Ist Medium Gray Armored Platoon
3 Liberator mcdium gray tanks
3 Artillery Fire Missions

--- PAGE 70 [OCR] ---
GGGGGG
GGGGGGGGGGGGGGOGG
STALEMATE
For use with CENTURION
ooe Us nd gide IL
SITUATION:25MARCH681I9.
THISFAR ANDNO FARTHER
2.500KILOMETERSEASTOFTHEIMPSEA
-Excerpt from Molemenand Earth Shakers.TheInvasionofGustavivs
Regret.Roberi F,Bales, Commonwcalth Publishing, 6822
When Brigadier General Burke ordered the 64th to halt its advance
and dig in at natural defenses, the 3/64th, in the company of a number of
After the battle of Kamar,the Commonwcalth forces under Brigadier
militia regiments.found itself in the Alrose Highlands eastof the lmp Sea.
Gcneral Burke drove the3794th back on everyfront, until thelines reached
Viewing the craggyhills and deep valleys as perfectterrain fora defensive
the positions TOG had achieved in early January.There, the TOG forces
position, the Commonwealth units set about locating the best natural
wheeled on their pursuers. The 2/64th reached Iseltone before he force of
strong points in the area., Once located, the 3/64th and its militia coun-
their advance was blunted by the 3/3794th. West of Barton's Fire Sca. the
Ierpurts built reinforced revetments,pillboxes, and other static defenses.
1/64th reached Trosos and Srinn before being halted by the sudden TOG
all commanding natural choke-points,which would channel the attackers
counteroffensive, In the eastem hemisphere, thc Comunonwealth legions
into dcadly crossfires. In addition, thousands of mines were planted, both
re-took Egg.The 4/64th drove lo withineightkilometers of Rose Thom,but
by hand and by artillery. Ground sensors were placed along approach
a staunch defense mustered by the TOG 2/3794th prevented the Com-
routes that the Commonwealth forces could not covcr, cither because the
monwealth forces from liberating the planetary capital. Some Common-
terrain made such coverage impossible, or from lack of sufficicnt forces.
wealth units even managed to link up with stragglers and militia units that
Once the preparations were complete, the Commonwealth troops
had been trapped behind the lines during the rapid TOG advances in
settled down to wait.
November and December 681x.These reconbined units pushed deep into
On 25 March, a TOG armored century attempted to push its way
TOG-held territory,in one case as far north as the northcm shores of the Imp
through the defenses. The 7/1/3794th lashed out at the defenses held by
Sea, before being halted by the 1/3794th.
the91st Commonwealth Provisional Militia,an ad hocunitassembled out
When theCommonwealth advance ran out of impetus. Prefect
of the remnants of threc militia companies that had becn decimated in
Timmons ordered his legion to regain the territory lost in the counterat-
earlier battles with TOG, Even though the TOG forces had better
tack. The 3794th launched counteroffensives on every front, but the
equipment and a higher level of training,the 9l st CPM held their linelong
unexpected happened. The 64th refused to give way. Only in the region
enough for elements of the Third Baltalion, 64th Commonwcalth Legion.
south of the Fire Sea and on thc shores of Lake Shoe did the Common-
to come to their aid, The sudden onslaught of grav tanks, where only
wealth forces retreat. However, instead of the pell-mell flighr that had
militia infantry and ground vchicles had been expected, forced the TOG
characlerized their earlier actions, the battered troops gave ground
armor to withdraw.Toward the end ofthe fighting,a TOG heavy armored
gnudging y. in some cases defending a position to the last man.
unit arrived, hoping to tum the tide of battle.The 4/1/3794th charged into
The lines stabilized in late March 6819, when Brigadier General
the fray.Their assault was cut short when their heavy grav tanks stumbled
Burke and General Gunn realized that they did not have the strength to
across one of the minefields dotting the area, Centurion Cassius Zancles
throw the TOG invasion force off the planet, and decided to dig in along
Trajan lost its drives to a mine, and the crippled tank was reduced to
naturally defensible points and force the 3794th to spend its strength
smoldering junk by the foot soldiers of the 9lst.
trying to root them out.
Tactically,the Battle of the Alrose Highlands was a marginal victory
for the Commonwealth. The invaders had been repulsed, but the 9lst
CPM had lost over two-thirds of its strength.Even so, Alrose provided a
boost to the morale of the entire Commonwealth prescnce on Gustaviv 's
Regret. Instead of pulling back under fire, the 9lst and the 3/64th had
stood firm and had driven off the altacking TOG legion.

--- PAGE 71 [OCR] ---
IGGGG
COMMONWEALTHFORCES
GAMESET-UP
The Centurion rules are used for this scenario.
Elements of the 9lst Commonwealth Provisional Militia
Lieutenant Julie Hope, Commander
Lay out the maps as illustrated. All heavy woods hexes are treated as
Leadership Rating: 2
light wuods. All light woods hexes are trealed as rubble.The Com
monwealth player seis up the 9lst CPM anywhere on Map 1 before thc
Troop Quality: Regular
sccnario begins. All militia units begm the gane in revetments or
Ist Heavy Ground Armor Platoon
3 Sterling heavy ground tanks (Hexes 0905, 1204, 2205)
foxholes.
TheTOG 7/1/3794thenters at the top of Map4during the movement
2nd Amoned Infantry Platoon
2 Activator medium ground APCs (Hexes 0402.2404)
phase of Turn 1.
The Commonwealth 1/3/64th enters at the bottom of Map 1 during
2 ground infantry squads w/TVLGs (Hexes 0502.2504)
the movement phase of Turn 4.
4th Infantry Platoon
The Commonwealth 4/3/64th enters at the right edge of Map 1
during thc movement phase of Tun 5.
The TOG4/1/3794th enters at the topof Map4during the movemcnt
3 Hidden Minefields
phase of Turn 7.
Captain Dyffyd Glendower, Commander
Leadership Rating:4
Troop Quality:Regular
MAP4
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
lnt no nnoag u ohvog
3 Deliverer heavy gray tanks
2nd Medium Grav Arnnor Platoon
3 Liberator medium grav tanks
3rd Light Grav Amor Platoon
3 Wolverine light grav tanks
MAP1
TOGFORCES
Seventh Century,1/3794th Strike Legion
Optio Samuel Alverez, Commander
Leadership Rating:3
Troop Quality:Regular
Ist Medium Gray Armor Platoon
3 Horatius medium gray tanks
2nd Light Grav Armor Platoon
3 Aeneas light grav tanks
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Romulus medium grav APCs
3 hounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Fourth Century, 1/3794th Strike Legion
Centurion Cassius Zancles, Commander
Leadership Rating: 3
Troop Quality: Regular
Ist Heavy Grav Armor Platoon
3 Trajan heavy grav tanks
2nd Heavy Grav Armor Plaloon
2 Trajan heavy grav tanks
1 Horatius medium grav tank
3rd Armored Infantry Platoon
3 Romulus medium gray APCs
2 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
I bouncc infantry squad w/mortars

--- PAGE 72 [OCR] ---
Flements of Fourth Company,3/64th Commonwe
egion
Minefields
Masler Sergeant Kim Duc,Commander
The Commonwealth player begins the game with three hidden
Leadership Rating: 3
minefields. Before play begins, he secretly records their locations.
Troop Quality: Green
Force Withdrawal
Ist Arimored Infantry Platoon
Either side nay be forced to withdraw (see Distant Fire Special
Rule: Withdrawal: Force Withdrawal), However, when calculating
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
3 bounce infantry squads w/TVLGs
Commonwealth units lost, ignore the ground vehicles, Only count the
2nd Armored Infantry Platoon
Commonwealth s gray vehicles, Tf TOG is forced to withdraw.it exits
3 Spartius medium grav APCs
over the top or right edge of Map 4. If the Commonwealth is forced to
3 bounce infantry squads w/mortars
withdraw, it exits over the bottom or left edge of Map I.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
GAMELENGTH
Combat continues until one side is forced to withdraw.
Decisive TOG Victory: The Commonwealth units are forced to
withdraw. No more than four TOG gray vehicles are destroyed.
SPECIALRULFS
Substantial TOG Victory: The Common wealth units are forced to
Revelments and Foxholes
withdraw. Five to cleven TOG gray vchicles are destroyed.
The Conmonwealth 91st CPM sets up in prc-prepared revctments
Marginal TOG Victory: The Commonwealth units are forced to
and foxholes. Treat these fortifications as craters., allowing units to
withdraw. Twelve to fourteen TOG gray vehicles are destroyed.
achieve "hull-down" status withoul using digging cannons. Revetments
Marginal Commonwealth Victory: The TOG units are forced to
provide full protection only to the front facing ofa vehicle. All revetments
withdraw, Ten to twelve Commonwealth grav vehicles are destroyed.
face north and will only give *hull-down status against fire from thal
Substantial Commonwealth Victory: The TOG units arc forced to
direction. Fire striking thc flanks ofa vehicle in a revetment receives only
withdraw. Five to nine Conmonwealth grav vehicles are destroyed.
a-I penalty ratherthan theusual -2 forbeing"hull-down,because ofthe
Decisive Commonwealth Victory: The TOG units are forced to
low sides ofa revetment Fire striking the stem ofa vehiclein a revetment
withdraw, No more than four Commonwealth grav vehicles are de-
is nol penalized.
stroyed.
Foxholes are trealed like ordinary infantry craters. Grav vehicles
Draw: Any other result
may ground in any cmpty revetment, thus gaining the revetment's To-Hit
modifiers. Unlikc craters, it only costs I Vp to move out of a revetment.

--- PAGE 73 [OCR] ---
Fall:
6818
A TOG task force suddenly
emergedfromTispace
around Gustaviv's Regret.
the Empire & crush
anyopnosition.Theinvasion
code-named Distant Fire
signaled the beginning of one
of TOG'S longest and
bloodiest campaigns.
Distant Fire, a Renegade Legion scenario pack for use withallfour Renegade Legion
game systems, covers thekey batles of the invasion of Gustavi's Regret.
RENEGADELECON is  Regstered Trademark dl FASA Conporaion DISTANT FIRE and TOG are Trademars D FASA
Coporationg CooyightC19s1FASACorporation.Al FighsRasenvedPnnted IntheUniled StatesfAmerica
F959
ANOTHER SCANFROM
TAeDragOA PriNCOSS