--- PAGE 1 ---
RENEGADE LEGION
CENTURION
BLOOD & STEEL
Design: Jordan Weisman, Sam Lewis
Additional Design: Thom Gressman, Dallen Masters
Development: L. Ross Babcock III, David Wiley
Writing: Sam Lewis
Layout: Tzeentch
Cover Art: Erik Vander Palen
Illustrations: Denis Nielson, Jim Nelson, Jeff Laubenstein, Steve Venters, David Martin, Dana Knutson, Ernie
Hernandez, Tony Szczudlo, Mike Jackson, Mike Nielson, Karl Martin, Rick Harris
CENTURION, LEVIATHAN, INTERCEPTOR and RENEGADE LEGION are Registered Trademarks of FASA Corporation.
TOG, LEGIONNAIRE and CENTURION are trademarks of FASA Corporation

--- PAGE 2 ---
INTRODUCTION
     The Imperial TOG Battleship Group reports that the last of the
Renegade and Commonwealth naval units have been driven from
space. TOG controls the system, but not the planet below. Orbital
bombardment has been futile against the planetary defense
installations. The Strike Legion is readied and the assault begins.
     Screaming down through the atmosphere, with a fusion-created
hell bursting all around, the assault boats release medium and light
grav tanks 5 kilometers above the surface of the planet. After a
brief and deadly fire fight with planetary militia, the landing zones
are secured and the heavy equipment is offloaded. The Legions
Cohorts form and move toward the first of their objectives, a
Renegade Navy spaceport. Traveling at over 300 kilometers per
hour, the TOG grav tanks give up the safety of hugging the ground
for speed. Suddenly artillery airbursts appear over the lead
Century, as Renegade artillery rains mines down to block their
path. At the same time, three TOG Aeneas light tanks explode as
150mm Gauss cannons rip open their bellies.
     Rising up from their hidden position. Renegade Liberators
ascend to meet the onrushing TOG horde. A TOG Centurion
orders his tanks down to deal with the threat. Artillery missions are
called in. the orbital Thor satellites pick out targets to spear with
their deadly falling javelins, and a pair of TOG Spiculum space
fighters rushes to engage a group of Renegade Guardians lifting off
from a secret base. The battle for the planet has now begun.
Centurion is a game for any number of players. Grav tanks and
infantry squads of the Commonwealth and its Renegade Legion
allies fight a desperate struggle against the Terran Overlord
Governments attempt to conquer the galaxy. Players command
grav tank units, infantry squads, orbital and conventional artillery,
and space defense installations in this game of tactical ground
warfare.
     The Basic Rules present all the information required to play.
The Optional Rules give players additional, diverse elements for
their game. Centurion can also be combined with the Interceptor,
Leviathan, and Legionnaire games to create a fully integrated
space/air/land battle. Included in a separate book is extensive
background information on the ground forces and technology of
the Terran Overlord Government, the Commonwealth, and the
Renegade Legion.

--- PAGE 3 ---
GAME SET-UP
COMPONENTS
COUNTERS
Grav Vehicle
     Grav vehicle figures
represent the most
technologically advanced
combat vehicle ever
manufactured. Fast, heavily
armored, and with enough
firepower to raze a city, the
grav tank has totally
changed the nature of ground warfare.
Infantry Squad
     Infantry Squad counters
represent the men and
women who hold the terrain
won by the more glamorous
grav tanks. Each squad contains up to eight troopers armed with
weapons such as painting lasers, Gauss rifles, and a variety of anti-
tank weapons. Squads are also equipped with bounce packs that
give them the limited ability to move quickly while dismounted.
The continuing need for infantry in warfare proves the adage that
the more things change, the more they remain the same.
Vehicle Crew
     Vehicle Crew counters represent TOG and
Commonwealth vehicle crew members who have
been forced to abandon their vehicles.
Crater
     Crater counters represent field
emplacements hastily dug out by
the specialized digging charges
carried by most vehicles.
Building
     Building counters represent non-
military facilities constructed from
a variety of materials. The scenario
generally assigns a height to each
building, with each level of a
building equal to 20 meters. Each
building counter represents
approximately one city block. For
line-of-sight purposes, buildings
add their Elevation Level to the elevation of the hex they occupy.
A building’s armor rating indicates how much damage each story
can absorb before that level is destroyed.
Rubble
     Rubble is what is left of buildings and
forests when the military is finished with
them. Weapons fire can reduce any building to
rubble. Both forests and buildings can be
nibbled by the use of artillery-delivered HELL
rounds. Though it is more difficult to move
through rubble, this terrain does offer limited protection and cover
from weapons fire. Rubble has no Elevation Level.
Minefield
     Minefield counters represent a field of artillery-
delivered anti-tank and anti-personnel mines. The
hex that the counter occupies is seeded with mines.
Smoke
     Smoke counters indicate that the hex
is filled with smoke. Most vehicles can
fire smoke rounds and often carry smoke
projectors or smoke canister launchers.
Pathway
     Pathway counters indicate that a
path has been cut through trees or
through minefields. There are two
types of pathway counters: straight
and curved. These counters are
aligned with the hex to indicate which
hex-side is the entrance and which is
the exit.
Thor Satellite
     A Thor satellite uses kinetic energy weap-
ons to bombard a planet from orbit.
      Thor Cluster
     Thor Clusters represent the kinetic energy pro-
jectiles released by a Thor satellite.
      HELL Missile
     HELL missiles serve to protect ground targets
from orbital bombardments. They use a gravitically
induced fusion reaction to create an airburst explo-
sion that can vaporize unshielded targets.

--- PAGE 4 ---
Painting
     A painting counter is placed next to a unit to
show that it has attempted to paint a target with a
special laser during that turn.
Painted
     The painted counter is placed next to a unit that
has been successfully painted during the Painting
Segment of the Combat Phase.
Fired
     This counter is placed next to a unit to show
that it has fired its weapons during the turn.
TTF
     A TTF counter is placed next to a grav vehicle
to show that it is operating in Tree-Top Flight
mode.
LAF
     A LAF counter is placed next to a grav vehicle
to show that it is operating in Low-Altitude Flight
mode.
MAPSHEETS
     Centurion is played on two 24” x 36” mapsheets. To help
regulate movement and combat, the map is divided into six-sided
areas called hexes. Units move from hex to hex.
     Hex maps help make movement more realistic because they
provide six possible movement directions instead of the four
possible with square grids. Each hex on the mapsheet represents an
area of ground 200 meters (roughly 656 feet) across, and each turn
represents one minute of real time.
     The forests, rivers, hills, and buildings on the mapsheet
represent a typical mixture of the terrain in the populated areas on
the inhabited planets in the year 6830. Shown below are the
symbols used for each terrain type.
Clear
     These are typical fields, meadows, and other
grasslands. The ground is firm and may be gently
rolling, but its elevation does not change
significantly from one side of the hex to the other.
Light Woods
     Light woods terrain is sparsely covered with
20-meter-high trees, Movement through these trees
is fairly easy, It is impossible to see through light
woods. For line-of-sight purposes, light woods add
one Elevation Level to the terrain’s normal
Elevation Level.
Heavy Woods
     Heavy woods terrain is thickly covered
with 20-meter-tall trees and heavy
undergrowth. Movement through these areas
is very difficult. Heavy woods are too dense
to be seen through. For line-of-sight purposes,
heavy woods add one Elevation Level to the
terrain’s normal Elevation Level.
River
     River terrain indicates that a wide river or
stream flows through the hex. In this terrain,
ground vehicle movement is restricted, while
grav vehicles can use the river like a road.
Lake
     A Lake hex is covered with water, either
in the form of a lake, pond, or swamp.
Ground vehicles or infantry are prohibited
from moving into this terrain.
Contour Lines
     Hills are defined on the map by contour lines. Each line
represents a one-level change in elevation, or about 20 meters. The
Elevation Level of any hex is equal to the height of the highest
contour line. Moving from a lower elevation hex to a higher
elevation hex is called going Up Slope. The Elevation Level
increase is equal to the difference between the Elevation Levels of
the two hexes. Going Down Slope is moving from a higher
elevation to a lower elevation hex. The level decrease is the
difference between the Elevation Levels of the two hexes.

--- PAGE 5 ---
RECORD SHEETS
Grav Vehicle Record Sheets
     The Vehicle Record Sheet shown in the diagram is for keeping
track of the damage done to individual grav vehicles during
combat. Each record sheet may be used to record the information
for any grav vehicles and infantry assigned to a platoon. Each sheet
includes three separate records to represent three individual
vehicles.
     The Armor Diagram shows how much armor each section of
the vehicle has, along with the section’s shield factor. The Shield
Factor is the vehicle’s Shield Rating for that section, divided by
10.
     Immediately below the Armor Diagram are the internal systems
of the vehicle. The use and effects of each of these areas are
explained in the Combat and Damage sections of the rules.
     Players will use the spaces on the left-hand side of the Grav
Vehicle Record Sheet to record the number and type of missiles
that vehicle carries.
     The Velocity Record Track is used to record the vehicle’s
velocity at the end of each turn, and is located along the right-hand
side of the form. The box marked “0” is for recording the vehicle’s
velocity at the start of the game.
     The Maximum Thrust box is located below the Velocity Record
Track. Players record the maximum thrust for the vehicle here.
     Weapons information is recorded in the Weapons Tables
located in the lower-left section of the form. Up to eight weapon
systems may be mounted on a vehicle. Boxes are provided to
record the weapon’s Type, Location, Damage, and Maximum
Range. In most cases, the weapon’s damage profile is on the
template, and is represented by a ‘T’ in the Damage box. An ‘S’
means that the weapon is used in a special manner, as described
later in the rules. A number in the Damage box indicates that the
weapon is a laser. A laser destroys a vertical column of armor
boxes equal to its damage number.
     To the right of the Weapons Tables is a box for recording any
tiring modifiers due to targeting computer hits. Below the Fire
Modifier boxes are locations for recording the number of smoke
and digging charges the vehicle has.
     Finally, if an infantry squad is assigned to the vehicle, the
player fills out the Infantry Squad Table. The Infantry Squad Table
has spaces to record the number of active troops still left with the
squad, the number of TVLG missiles or mortars the squad has, and
its Movement Points (MP).
Ground Vehicle Record Sheets
     Conventionally powered ground vehicles have a specialized
record sheet. It is the same as the Grav Vehicle Record Sheet,
except that the Internal Systems blocks are laid out differently, and
the Velocity Record Track is eliminated along with the Shield
Factor boxes.
Building Record Sheets
     The Building Record Sheet is used to keep track of the status of
buildings. It is simply an Armor Diagram showing the current
status of each level of the building.
DAMAGE TEMPLATE
     The damage template is made up of die-cut diagrams showing
the damage profile for each weapon in the game, except lasers. It is
used to mark off weapon damage on a target’s armor and internal
structure.
DIE
     Centurion uses a ten-sided die (1D10), whose sides are
numbered from 0 to 9, with 0 representing 10. To succeed in
actions such as hitting a target, avoiding a tree, and so on, the rules
generally indicate a modified to-hit number. Unless otherwise
noted, the player must roll a die result less than or equal to the
modified to-hit number for the action to be successful. No matter
what the circumstances, a roll of 1 is an automatic success and a
roll of 10 means automatic failure in this game.

--- PAGE 6 ---
LEGIONS
     This is a separate booklet containing descriptions of the organi-
zational structure of TOG, Commonwealth, and Renegade ground
forces, game stats and descriptions of grav vehicles, and notable
units.
PREPARATION FOR PLAY
     Before play begins, players decide whether to play a published
scenario or one of their own design. They should then choose sides
and fill out record sheets for each unit to be used in the battle.
From that point on, the players will simply follow the Sequence of
Play and the rules given for each Game Phase.
MAPSHEET LAYOUT
     Lay out two or more mapsheets on a table or a floor in a way
agreeable to all players. If buildings or other counters are desired
or called for by the scenario, place them on the mapsheet now.
This can be done randomly, or the players can take turns choosing
where to place the counters.
FILL OUT RECORD SHEETS
     Before the game starts, each player must first decide which
Centurion units he will control, then record the information for his
units on individual record sheets. It is best to use a pencil, as this
information is likely to change during the course of play. The
infantry portion of a Vehicle Record Sheet must indicate whether
the squad carries anti-vehicle missiles or mortars. Unless otherwise
noted, all infantry squads start with a full complement of eight
men.
     All units should be assigned to platoons. There are three
vehicles and/or infantry squads to a platoon, and the record sheet.
     The player starts by filling out the record sheet for the first
platoon. He decides to assign three light Renegade Viper APCs
to that platoon, along with three infantry squads. He then fills
in the numbers that will represent these vehicles in the game.
In this case, they are Vehicle #7, #8, and #9.
     Next, he fills in the shields for each section of the vehicle,
The Viper has a Stern Shield of 50, Left Shield of 40, Front
Shield of 50, Right Shield of 40, and Bottom Shield of 40. The
Shield Factors are therefore 5,4,5,4, and 4.
     Next, the player should cross out the unused armor blocks
in each section. Each row of boxes equals 10 points. Starting
from the top, the player crosses off armor in rows often. The
Viper is a lightly armored tank. As it has 50 points of armor on
the front and turret, the player crosses out the other 50 points
in each of those two sections. The sides and stem each have 40
points of armor, and so the player crosses off 60 unused points
front each of those sections, The Viper has 20 points of bottom
armor, so 80 points in that section need to be blocked out.
Next, the player fills in weapons. The Viper has one 25mm
Gauss cannon and an SMLM 2 in the turret. A ‘T’ is used to
indicate that the weapon’s damage is on the damage template.
     The maximum range for each weapon is written in the
appropriate section. The Viper has a TVLG 2 Launcher in
both its Hull 1 and Hull 2 positions. The Viper carries a total of
two SMLM missiles and four TVLG missiles.
     The Viper is equipped with a smoke projector and a digging
cannon. Each smoke projector has four charges, as does the
digging cannon.
     An infantry squad is assigned to the vehicle, The player
decides that the infantry carries TVLGs, and so two of the
Mortar boxes are filled in.
     Finally, the Viper has a Maximum Thrust of 8 points. This
is recorded in the Maximum Thrust box.

--- PAGE 7 ---
PLAYING THE GAME
     To play Centurion, the players simply move playing pieces and
roll the die. The challenge of the game is for one player to outwit
his opponent and to make better use of his forces. Though it
requires skill to win consistently, even a novice can sometimes
make a shot lucky enough to cripple the experienced player.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
     The following is a summary of the Game Phases that make up
the Sequence of Play. This is provided for quick reference by the
players. The complete rules for each phase and segment arc fully
described in the chapter devoted to that aspect of the game.
INITIATIVE PHASE
     One player from each side rolls the die for his team’s Initiative.
The team that rolls lowest may choose to be either Side A or Side
B during the Movement Phase for this turn. The player with a
Leadership Advantage may subtract some, none, or all of those
Advantage Points from the result of his die roll (See Centurions).
He must decide how much of his Leadership Advantage he will
use before making the roll.
     The players will then alternate moving platoons. All of the
vehicles and infantry squads listed on a vehicle record sheet are
considered one platoon. All of these units will execute their
movement during a turn at the same time regardless of combat
casualties. Thus, if a platoon starts off the game with three Viper
APCs and three infantry squads, and, due to combat, the platoon is
reduced to a single infantry squad, moving that one squad will
constitute moving a platoon.
MOVEMENT PHASE
     Team A moves one platoon. Each unit in the platoon is moved
individually in any order. Grav vehicles move by carrying out each
step listed below in order:
     1. Apply Acceleration.
     2. Move the vehicle according to its total current velocity,
counting all Terrain Costs. If the vehicle exceeds the speed limit of
any hex it enters, the player makes a Piloting Skill Roll for that
hex, and takes any damage.
     3. Apply any Deceleration.
     4. Ground, if desired or required
     5. Record Ending Velocity.
     Team B then moves one platoon. Each unit in the platoon is
moved individually in any order. Grav vehicles move by carrying
out each step listed below in order:
     1. Apply Acceleration.
     2. Move the vehicle according to its total velocity, counting all
Terrain Costs. If the vehicle exceeds the speed limit in any hex that
it enters, make a Piloting Skill Roll for that hex, and take any
damage.
     3. Apply any Deceleration.
     4. Ground, if desired or required.
      5. Record Ending Velocity.
     Movement alternates until all platoons have moved or declared
their intention NOT to move.
     Team B should always move one of its platoons last. Movement
should alternate between sides, but because platoons may be
destroyed during the course of the game, this might not be
possible. If, prior to any pair of movements, one team has twice as
many platoons left to move as the other team, that team moves two
platoons rather than one. (If one team has three times as many
units, it moves three each time. and so on.) This means that the
team that won the initiative moves at least one of its units last. Any
platoon that has not had all of its vehicles and infantry destroyed
may be moved.
     For example, Team A has five platoons and Team B has
three platoons. The movement of the units should follow this
sequence:
     Team A moves one platoon.
     Team B moves one platoon.
     Team A moves two platoons.
     Team B moves one platoon.
     Team A moves two platoons.
     Team B moves one platoon.
     Instead of moving during their portion of the Movement Phase,
platoons may choose to declare Opportunity Fire instead. Units in
platoons that declare Opportunity Fire may immediately fire on
any enemy units that move into their line-of-sight during the
remainder of the turn. Units may not fire at enemy units that move
until they have declared Opportunity Fire. See the Opportunity
Fire rules for a more detailed explanation.
     The Movement sequence can also be affected by a player with a
Leadership Advantage. Depending on the size of the advantage,
the player can decide not to move one or more platoons, reserving
the right to move them later during the normal Movement of one of
his other units (see Centurions).
COMBAT PHASE
Declare Laser Painting Fire
     The team that lost the Initiative declares any laser painting
attempts that they plan to make with one unit.
     The team that won the Initiative then declares any laser painting
attempts that they plan to make with one unit.
     The declaring alternates until all painting has been declared.
The team that won the Initiative declares the last attack.

--- PAGE 8 ---
Resolve Laser Painting Fire
     All vehicles and infantry squads may fire painting lasers, one
unit at a time. Painting lasers do no damage, but improve the
chances of a hit from offboard artillery, missiles, MDCs, or lasers.
Declare Weapons Fire
     The team that lost the Initiative declares any attacks that they
plan to make with one of their units.
     Next, the team that won the Initiative declares any attacks that
they plan to make with one of their units.
     The declaring alternates until all fire has been declared. The
team that won the Initiative declares the last attack.
Resolve Weapons Fire
     Weapons fire is resolved, one firing unit at a time. Damage to
outer armor immediately takes effect, which allows subsequent
shots to strike a weakened area and thus to penetrate the armor.
Internal vehicle damage and infantry squad losses do not take
effect until the end of the turn, allowing a unit destroyed in the turn
a chance to avenge itself. Note that all weapons attacks by one unit
must be resolved before those of any other unit take place.
     Damage is recorded as attacks are resolved, but internal damage
does not affect the unit until after ALL weapons attacks have been
resolved. At that point, all internal damage takes effect
immediately.
Resolve Offboard Artillery and Orbital Fire Support
     Any offboard artillery or orbital fire support due to arrive
during this turn is resolved according to the appropriate rules.
END PHASE
     All widowed armor is removed after all attacks are resolved.
     New artillery and orbital fire missions are called in. The player
should secretly record the target hex and the turn that the mission
will arrive.
     Smoke screens laid down on the previous turn are removed.
New smoke screens are laid down.
Play continues with the start of a new Initiative Phase.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Initiative Phase
Movement Phase
     A. Team A moves 1 platoon
     B. Team B moves 1 platoon
Teams alternate until movement is complete
Combat Phase
     A. Declare Painting Laser Fire
     B. Resolve Painting Laser Fire
     C. Declare Weapons Fire
     D. Resolve Weapons Fire
     E. Resolve offboard artillery and orbital fire support
End Phase
     A. Remove widowed armor
     B. Call in new artillery and orbital fire support missions
     C. Remove old smoke
     D. Lay down new smoke

--- PAGE 9 ---
MOVEMENT
GRAV VEHICLES
     Ground warfare in the 69th century is highly mobile and very
deadly. The vast majority of combat vehicles use grav drives,
which warp and manipulate a planet’s gravity field in order to
move the vehicle. Because the field creates a 95 percent
frictionless surface around the tank, these combat craft can-attain
very high speeds despite their non-aerodynamic appearance.
     Grav drives do have one drawback, however. Short of turning
off the drive and slamming into the ground, it is difficult to
decelerate quickly or to make a sudden turn in a fast moving grav
vehicle. Additionally, because of engineering constraints, grav
vehicles must follow ground contours fairly closely. This means
that vehicles traveling at high speeds over rapidly changing terrain
(hills, trees, canyons) run the risk of sinking the ground and
damaging the vehicle.
     Though conventional tracked and wheeled vehicles are much
slower than grav vehicles and are more limited by terrain effects,
they are more easily controlled.
FACING
     Every hex on the map has six edges called hexsides. All
vehicles, whether they are grav or conventionally powered, must
be oriented to face one of those six hexsides, which is called
facing. A vehicle’s facing is determined by the direction of its
front, or nose. This facing affects both movement and combat and
can only be changed during the Movement Phase. If a vehicle is
improperly aligned, the opposing player may choose which of the
two hexsides the vehicle will face.
ACCELERATION
     Each grav vehicle has a maximum number of Thrust Points that
it can expend during its move. These Thrust Points are used to
increase or decrease the grav vehicle’s velocity during the turn.
One Thrust Point can increase or decrease the vehicle’s current
velocity by 1. A grav vehicle may ONLY increase its velocity at
the beginning of its movement, and ONLY decrease its velocity at
the end of its movement, prior to grounding. The total acceleration
and deceleration in a turn cannot exceed the vehicle’s total Thrust
Points.
     For example, a Horatius tank has a Thrust of 6 and a
beginning velocity of 5. The player decides to spend 3 of his
Thrust Points on acceleration this turn, giving the Horatius a
current velocity of 8. This leaves 3 Thrust Points that can be
spent on deceleration after the vehicle has moved.
GRAV MOVEMENT
     After a grav vehicle has applied any acceleration, it must move
and expend a number of Velocity Points equal to its current
velocity. If a grav vehicle does not, or cannot, expend a number of
Velocity Points equal to its full current velocity, it must ground at
the end of its movement. (It does have the opportunity to
decelerate before grounding).
     It costs different amounts of Velocity Points to enter various
terrain features, as indicated on the Terrain Effects Table, p. 18. As
the table indicates, the Velocity Cost to move into a clear hex is I
Velocity Point (VP). The cost to move into a light woods hex is 2
VP.
     A grav vehicle must have sufficient Velocity Points remaining
to enter a hex. Turning restrictions might result in a vehicle not
having enough VP to enter the hex that it is facing, even though it
has not expended its full velocity for the turn. If this occurs, the
grav vehicle must ground (see Grounding).
     Unless the terrain is prohibited, a grav vehicle may always
move one hex forward, no matter what the Terrain Cost, as long as
that is the only hex the vehicle enters that turn. If turning or other
restrictions might force a grav vehicle to move forward into
prohibited terrain, the vehicle must ground immediately in the
previous hex at its current velocity (after any deceleration).
     For example, the Horatius from the above example must
move through terrain whose total Velocity Point Cost is 8.
Moving from Point A, the Horatius would spend 8 points to go
to B, C, or D. If the Horatius tried to move to F, however, it
would not have enough VPto enter the hex and would be
forced to ground in F.
     Before grounding, the player could spend his remaining
Thrust Point to lower the velocity of the Horatius to 7, but the
vehicle would still be forced to ground after the deceleration.

--- PAGE 10 ---
Traveling Up and Down Slope
Traveling Up Slope or Down Slope can add or subtract VP to the
VP Cost of the terrain. Moving from a higher to a lower elevation
reduces the VP Cost of the hex, as shown on the Terrain Effects
Table. p. 18. When moving from a lower elevation to a higher
elevation, the VP Cost increases, again per the Terrain Effects
Table. It is possible for a hex to have a negative VP, such as when
a vehicle moves Down Slope into a clear hex with a slope of 6 or
more. In this case, the cost for entering the terrain is 0.
     For example, the Horatius goes from a Heavy Woods hex
with an Elevation of 5 into a Light Woods hex with Elevation
of 0. The VP Cost for entering that hex is 2—3, or -1.
Therefore, the cost of entering that terrain is 0, If the Horatius
were moving in the opposite direction, the VP Cost would be 3
+ 5, or 8 VP.
Facing Changes
     A grav vehicle turns by manipulating the gravity field via
directional vanes. Thus, there is no Thrust Cost to turn the vehicle.
However, the faster the vehicle moves, the larger its turning arc
will be.
     A grav vehicle can only move forward into a hex that it is
facing (see Traveling in Reverse for exceptions). A grav vehicle
may change its facing only after it has moved at least the required
number of hexes in a straight line. The Facing Change Table gives
the number of hexes, during a turn, that a grav vehicle must travel
before it can make a facing change.
FACING CHANGE TABLE
Current
Velocity
Restrictions
0
May spin in place
1 - 5
1 hex between each hexside turn
6 - 10
2 hexes between each hexside
turn
11 - 19
3 hexes between each hexside
turn
20 - 29
4 hexes between each hexside
turn
30+
5 hexes between each hexside
turn
     Because of these restrictions, a vehicle might not have the
necessary VP to enter the hex that it is immediately facing. In such
case, the vehicle must ground in its current hex at the end of its
turn (though it may decelerate before grounding).
     If a grav vehicle starts a turn with a current velocity of 0, it may
turn to face any direction prior to moving out of the hex. This is
the only time when a grav vehicle may change its facing without
moving into at least the hex directly in front of it.
     For example, a Horatius is traveling at a current velocity of
10. That means it must travel straight forward for at least two
hexes before it can change its facing one hexside left or right. If
the Horatius had a current velocity of 20, then it would have to
travel straight for four hexes before it could change facing one
hexside left or right.
DECELERATION
     Thrust Points that were not expended to increase velocity this
turn may now be used to decrease the vehicle’s current velocity.
The current velocity is now recorded on the vehicle’s Velocity
Record Track in the box for this turn. This will indicate the
vehicle’s beginning velocity at the start of the next turn.
Deceleration may only be done after the vehicle has spent all its
VP. A vehicle cannot use unspent Thrust Points to reduce the
amount of VP that it must spend that turn.
     For example, the Horatius starts the turn with a current
velocity of 8 and a Thrust of 4. It does not accelerate at the
beginning of the turn. The vehicle must move through terrain
whose total VP Cost is 8. After its movement is complete, the
player has the option of reducing the vehicle’s current velocity
to 4 (8-4).
Traveling in Reverse
     While not a common practice, it is possible for a grav vehicle to
move in reverse. If after deceleration a vehicle’s current velocity is
negative, it will move backwards, with all movement costs and
lacing restrictions in effect. Any acceleration applied during sub-
sequent turns increases the current velocity. When the current
velocity exceeds 0 the grav vehicle will move forward again.
     Note that if a player wishes to increase the speed that a vehicle
is traveling backward, the thrust must be applied at the end of
movement during Deceleration. If the player wishes to decrease the
speed of reverse movement, the thrust must be applied at the start
of the unit’s movement during Acceleration.
Because terrain avoidance sensors are primarily oriented forward,
the speed limit for all terrain types is halved. (See Exceeding the
Speed Limit.)
     For example, a Liberator has a current velocity of 4 and has
finished its movement. It has not expended any Thrust Points
and now elects to expend all 6 of its remaining points. The
Liberator will start the next turn with a velocity of -2. If it does
not apply any acceleration, the Liberator will have to expend 2
VP, but it must move backward into the hex immediately
behind it.
EXCEEDING THE SPEED LIMIT
     All terrain has a maximum safe speed. Any grav vehicle whose
current velocity is higher than the speed limit of the terrain it is
entering may take damage as a result. In the case of hexes with
both slopes and terrain, use the lower speed limit for the hex’s
overall speed limit.
     When a vehicle’s current velocity is higher than the speed limit
of the hex it is entering, the player must make a Piloting Skill Roll.
The Base Number for this roll is 5, minus I for every 2 points of
current velocity (or fraction thereof) that the vehicle is over the
limit. Additional modifiers might be added because of damage the
vehicle has taken.

--- PAGE 11 ---
If the player rolls greater than this target number, the vehicle
takes damage equal in 10 points per point of velocity over the
speed limit. Damage is evenly divided between the front and
bottom sides. (Odd amounts may be divided in groups of ten, as
the player wishes). Mark off Armor blocks starting in the upper
left-hand corner, moving left to right down the rows. If the player
rolls less than or equal to this target number, the vehicle is not
damaged. Remember that a 1 is always an automatic success and a
10 is an automatic failure.
     A vehicle’s current velocity is not affected by damage taken
from exceeding the speed limit. All internal damage takes imme-
diate effect, however, as does the loss of armor. If the internal
damage hits the Grav Drive or Vehicle Destroyed box, the vehicle
stops all movement and must ground in the current hex at its
current velocity. It may not decelerate prior to grounding.
     For example, a grav vehicle with a current velocity of 10
enters a heavy woods hex, which has a speed limit of 6. This
requires the player to make a Piloting Skill Roll of 3 or less
(base of 5- (4 over the limit 1/2)). If the roll fails, the vehicle
will take 40 points of damage (4 over the limit x 10). This
damage will be split up, with 20 points to the front armor and
20 points to the bottom armor, After resolving the damage, the
vehicle continues its movement.
GROUNDING
     Having completed all deceleration, the player may declare that
the grav vehicle is grounding. The vehicle must also ground if it
has not moved its full VP. A vehicle that grounds may take
damage and its current velocity is reduced to zero. Only grav
vehicles may ground themselves.
     A grav vehicle may ground itself at the end of its movement.
Grounding occurs when the driver turns off the anti grav field and
allows the vehicle to drop to the ground. This stops the vehicle
completely and kills all velocity. Depending on the vehicle’s
current velocity (after deceleration is applied), damage might or
might not occur.
     For example, a Horatius has a current velocity of 8 and has
only moved one hex. Thus, the vehicle must ground at the end
of its turn. The Horatius applies its maximum of 6 Thrust
Points to decelerate, bringing the current velocity down 102.
Grounding Damage will be taken to the tank based on its new
velocity of 2, not the previous 8.
Grounding in Water
     Grav vehicles may ground in a full lake hex. Damage is taken
as one-half normal, but the vehicle cannot fire out at any target nor
be fired upon because it is under water. A grav vehicle that is
under water must spend I additional Thrust Point to rise above the
surface of the water prior to moving (for a total of 2 Thrust Points).
While under water, a grav vehicle may not dismount or mount
infantry. Vehicles may move while under water, but the terrain
speed limit is I. Vehicles under water may only be attacked by
artillery or orbital fire support missions.
Damage from Grounding
     Damage from grounding is equal to ten times the current
velocity of the vehicle.
     Grounding damage is always taken on the bottom armor.
     Starting in the upper left-hand corner of the Armor row, the
player crosses off damage straight across the row for as many
boxes as there are points of damage. Boxes that are already
damaged do not count.
     It costs one additional thrust point to go from being grounded to
flight. It costs two thrust points to go from a crater to flight.
     For example, the Horatius grounds at the end of its last
turn, It accelerates to 3 this turn, but it costs I thrust point to
lift up. The Horatius now has 2 thrust points that it must spend
in moving through other terrain.
     Grounding does not affect the crew or infantry squad of a
vehicle unless damage is taken in the appropriate internal compo-
nent section.
GROUND VEHICLES
     Ground vehicles are conventionally powered vehicles that use
contact with the ground via tracks, wheels, or surface effect skirts
to move. Unless otherwise specified, use the Combat and
Movement rules for grav vehicles.
     Ground vehicles are rated in Movement Points rather than
Thrust. They do not use acceleration or deceleration and do not
keep track of velocity. They may change their facing at any time
during their movement. To move from hex to hex, a ground
vehicle must pay the Velocity Point Cost to enter that hex. Note
that there are some movement restrictions listed on the Terrain
Effects Table.
     A player may move a ground vehicle up to the limit of the
unit’s Movement Points (MP). Units may spend some, none, or all
of their MP. Movement Points may not be saved from one turn to
another, and so the player loses any MP not used during the current
turn. Once a unit has used all its MP, it cannot move again until the
next turn. A ground unit must have remaining MP sufficient for the
cost of entering a hex. Unless the terrain is prohibited, a ground
vehicle may always move one hex forward, no matter what the
terrain cost, provided it is the only hex the vehicle enters that turn
and that the terrain does not forbid the vehicle to enter.
     Ground vehicles are never affected by the speed limit
restrictions of the terrain.
     Rather than moving forward during a turn, a ground vehicle
may elect to travel backward one hex.
     For example, a Heavy tank has 4 MP, During its movement,
the tank may move into any of the indicated hexes.
DISMOUNTED INFANTRY
     In order to move, dismounted infantry use what is known as a
bounce pack. This is a small anti-grav device that almost totally
negates the weight of the individual soldier. This allows the
trooper to move in a series of long, low jumps, or bounces, vastly
increasing his maneuverability.

--- PAGE 12 ---
Dismounted infantry move as though they were ground vehicles
with 3 MP. They receive no Road Bonus. Dismounted infantry
may not enter hexes whose terrain is prohibited to ground vehicles.
When inside buildings, an infantry unit may move only one level
per turn.
LOADING AND UNLOADING INFANTRY
     If a dismounted infantry squad begins its Movement Phase in
the same hex as a vehicle that can carry it, the squad can enter the
vehicle rather than move. A grav vehicle must have a current
velocity of 0 before a squad can mount it, however. Once mounted,
the infantry moves with the vehicle and can perform no other
actions.
     Both a Viper and a friendly infantry squad start the
Movement Phase in the same hex, with the Viper at a current
velocity of 0. The infantry squad can mount the Viper this
turn, and the Viper may move normally this turn, If the Viper
had a current velocity greater than 0, the infantry could not
have mounted before the vehicle moved. The Viper would have
had to complete its movement for the turn and end in the
infantry squad’s hex with a velocity of 0. The squad would
then be able to mount during the Movement Phase of the next
turn. Finally, if the squad did not start in the same hex as the
Viper, it could move to the Viper’s hex during its movement
turn. During the next turn’s Movement Phase, the squad could
mount the vehicle if the Viper’s current velocity is 0.
     Mounted infantry can dismount a vehicle only at the end of the
vehicle’s movement, and if its current velocity is 0. It may not
move for the rest of the turn, but may engage in combat as normal.
For all other purposes, the newly dismounted squad is treated as
normal.
ROAD AND RIVER MOVEMENT
     Vehicles and dismounted infantry may use roads to negate the
effects of terrain as long as the unit moves from one road hex to
the next adjoining road hex. Similarly, a grav vehicle may use a
river in the same manner as a road.
     A road in a hex does not negate the combat effects of the
surrounding terrain.
     A ground vehicle may receive a Road Bonus that allows it one
additional hex of movement if it travels along a road for its entire
turn. To gain this bonus, the vehicle must begin its turn on a road
and continue to travel along the road for its entire Movement
Phase.
OPPORTUNITY FIRE
     Units in a moving platoon may declare Opportunity Fire rather
than moving during their portion of the Movement Phase if they
have a starting velocity of 0. Units that declare Opportunity Fire
may immediately fire on any enemy units that move into their line-
of-sight during the remainder of the turn. Units may only fire at
enemy units that move AFTER Opportunity Fire has been
declared.
     As enemy units move from hex to hex, the opposing player
must decide immediately if any eligible units (those having an
LOS to the enemy’s hex) will fire on the enemy unit in that hex.
Once a player declares Opportunity Fire, the attack is resolved per
the normal Combat rules, and all damage takes effect immedi-
ately. If the enemy unit survives the attack, it can continue its
movement normally.
     A unit may make only one Opportunity Fire Attack per turn.
     A unit that makes an Opportunity Fire Attack may not make
any attacks in the Weapons Fire Phase.
     A unit may not use an Opportunity Fire Attack to paint a target.
     If Opportunity Fire is declared, but the attack is not actually
made, the unit may fire normally during the Combat Phase.
     For example, a Horatius ends its last turn with a velocity of
0. The Horatius’ platoon is third in line to move this turn, but
declares no movement, Thus, the Horatius can use
Opportunity Fire to fire at enemy units during the remainder
of the Movement Phase, The Horatius cannot fire at the units
of the two enemy platoons that moved before it declared. The
vehicles of the other enemy platoons that have yet to move may
be attacked as they move into the Horatius’s LOS.
HULL DOWN
     All vehicles on the battlefield attempt to use terrain to make
themselves more difficult targets. One such method is to use a
small ridge, crater, or other hole in the ground to cover or hide the
lower portions of the vehicle. A vehicle in such a defensive posture
is said to be hull down. In Centurion, many vehicles carry digging
cannons. This equipment fires a specially designed explosive
charge into the ground immediately under the vehicle. The charge
explodes and creates a crater into which the vehicle can drive and
assume a hull-down profile. At the same time, the vehicle fires
other charges that create a pattern of ten to twelve man-size
foxholes that allow any accompanying infantry to take up
protected positions.
     At any time during a vehicle’s movement, the player can
announce that his vehicle is firing a digging charge if functioning
digging cannons and sufficient charges remain. The player then
places a crater counter in the hex and marks off one digging charge
from that vehicle’s record sheet.
     To gain the defensive benefits of a cratered hex, a vehicle must
end its movement grounded in the hex. Ground vehicles only have
to enter the hex to gain the advantage of an existing cratered hex.
     A cratered hex gives the occupying unit a defensive modifier. It
may fire all weapons, including hull-mounted ones, as normal.
     It normally costs a vehicle I thrust point to lift from grounding.
It costs a grav vehicle 2 thrust points to raise up from a crater and
move normally.
     Once a crater has been created, it is removed from the board
only if it is unoccupied and the hex it occupies has been rubbled or
hit by a HELL round. Any unit may use the crater and gain its
defensive modifiers. Only one vehicle and one infantry unit may
gain the defensive benefits of a single crater, however. Multiple
craters are allowed in the same hex.
     A vehicle may ground in a cratered hex without taking up a
position inside the crater. Whether or not to use a crater is solely
up to the discretion of the player that owns the vehicle.
     Digging cannons have no effect on enemy units occupying the
hex into which they are fired, nor can they be used against
buildings.
     Digging cannons cannot be fired into lake hexes to create
craters, though they can be fired into river hexes. (The vehicles
take up positions on the river banks.)
STACKING
There is no limit to the number of units that can occupy the same
hex. Enemy and friendly units in the same hex may engage each
other according to the Combat in the Same Hex rules in the
Combat section.

--- PAGE 13 ---
TERRAIN EFFECTS TABLE
Terrain Type
Speed
Limit
Velocity
Points
Movement Restrictions
Terrain Combat Modifiers
Clear
20
1 VP/hex
None
Road
20
1 VP/hex
Negates Terrain Effects for Movement
None
Light Woods
8
2 VP/hex
-1
Heavy Woods
6
3 VP/hex
-2
River*
20
1 VP/hex
2 VP for Ground Vehicles
None
Lake
20
1 VP for Grav
Vehicles
No Ground Vehicles
None
Under Water*
1
4 VP/hex
Not allowed
Buildings*
10
1 VP/hex
-2
Rubble
8
2 VP
4 VP for Ground Vehicles
-1
Craters*
See Digging Cannon Rules
-2
Up Slope
1-Level Increase
20
+1 VP
2-Level Increase
20
+2 VP
3-Level Increase
20
+3 VP
4-Level Increase
16
+4 VP
No Ground Vehicles
5-Level Increase
16
+5 VP
No Ground Vehicles
Down Slope
I -Level Decrease
20
0 VP
2-Level Decrease
20
-l VP
3-Level Decrease
20
-l VP
4-Level Decrease
16
-2 VP
No Ground Vehicles
5-Level Decrease
16
-3 VP
No Ground Vehicles
*See appropriate rules section

--- PAGE 14 ---
COMBAT
PAINTING A TARGET
     Once the Movement Phase ends, all units may choose to
designate targets for missiles, lasers, mass driver cannons, and
offboard artillery by illuminating them with painting lasers. All
vehicles are automatically equipped with painting lasers. Maxi-
mum range for vehicle painting lasers is 20 hexes.
     Painting lasers offer two advantages. First, a painted target
radiates laser energy that allows an indirect fire weapon to home in
on it. Second, the painting laser is able to decipher the target’s
shield flicker pattern, which is downloaded into all friendly fire-
control systems, thus negating the shield’s effectiveness. This
tactic is not viable in space, however. Even at close range in space
(15 kilometers), the transmission lag time back to the targeting
ship is long enough that the target can change its shield flicker rate
before an offensive weapons system can be fired.
     Painting lasers are fired as normal weapons, following all line-
of-sight and to-hit modifier restrictions, as described below. A
painting laser may fire at a target that is not being engaged by the
vehicle’s other weapons systems. This is the only instance when a
vehicle can fire at more than two targets.
     Painting lasers have a 360-degree firing arc. To paint a target, a
vehicle must make a normal to-hit roll, taking into account the
target’s shields and other modifiers. If the painting laser hits, all
friendly laser, MDC, and missile attacks on that target ignore the
shield modifier for the rest of the turn.
     As long as the attack has been appropriately declared, one
friendly unit can paint a single target for multiple attacks by any or
all friendly units.
     The effects of painting only last until the end of the turn. A
target must be painted anew in subsequent turns.
INFANTRY SQUAD PAINTING
     Infantry squads need only declare that they are painting a target.
The squad may attempt to paint any target that is within six hexes
and to which they have a valid LOS, The Base Number for the
attempt is 9, minus the number of casualties the squad has taken.
For example, if the squad has taken three casualties, a painting
attempt would be successful on a die roll result of 6 or less.
     Infantry squads may not paint targets at ranges of greater than 6
hexes. When painting a target, infantry may not fire personal
weapons, missiles, or mortars that turn.
     A Viper sees a Horatius in clear terrain ten hexes away. The
Viper attempts to paint the Horatius with its painting laser at a
Base To-Hit Number of 9. Because the attempt is against the
left side of the Horatius, the player subtracts its Side Shield
Factor of 6 from the base to-hit number, The Viper needs to
roll a 3 or less to paint the Horatius. If a full-strength
Renegade infantry squad were within six hexes of the Horatius
and had a valid line-of-sight to it, the squad could paint the
target on a roll of 9 or less. In this case, the shields of the
Horatius are disregarded.
WEAPONS FIRE
     For one unit to fire at another, it must have a clear line-of-sight
(LOS) to the target (see Missiles and Artillery for exceptions) and
the target must be within the range and firing arc of the weapons
the player will fire. The likelihood of a shot hitting a target is then
calculated based on range, target shielding, laser painting, and
other factors. Players roll separately for each firing weapon’s
attack, The weapons that do hit will all strike the same section of
the target. This means that all, some, or none of the weapons fired
may hit their target, but those that do hit will all hit the same
section,
     Weapons fire damage first strikes the outer armor of the
vehicle. Damage that penetrates the outer armor begins to damage
the internal components of the vehicle. This internal damage can
cause the vehicle to lose Thrust Points, knock out weapons or
shields, or totally destroy the vehicle.
     A vehicle can engage up to two targets a turn. All of a vehicle’s
direct fire weapons (lasers, MDCs, and Gauss cannon weapons)
may engage any one target in its firing arc. Any missiles that the
vehicle carries can engage that same target or a different target that
is in the missile’s firing arc.
     Though internal damage to a unit does not take effect until the
end of the turn, the damage to the outer armor takes effect
immediately, This factor makes the order in which individual
weapons damage is resolved an important aspect of combat. A
player may fire any of his weapons in any order that he feels
appropriate. In the case of multiple units firing at one target, the
player may choose the order in which the units fire. All weapons
fire from one unit must be resolved before any other unit can fire,
LINE-OF-SIGHT (LOS)
     When a player wishes to fire on another unit, he must first
discover whether or not his unit can see its intended target. Various
terrain features can block a unit’s line-of-sight to a target, making a
shot impossible or requiring that the target be engaged by indirect
missile fire.
     The line-of-sight (LOS) is determined by laying a straightedge
(a ruler or a sheet of paper) from the center of the attacker’s hex to
the center of the target’s hex. Any hex that the straight-edge
crosses is on the line-of-sight. If the straight-edge passes directly
along the spine between two hexsides, the defender chooses which
hex the line-of-sight passes through. The players then look for
blocking terrain that is higher than the tallest of the two units. If
any blocking terrain is higher than the tallest unit, the LOS is
blocked.
     Units are assumed to be at an Elevation Level equal to the level
of the underlying terrain of their hex (i.e., the height of any woods
in the hex is not added to the Elevation Level of the underlying
terrain). Blocking terrain is equal to the Elevation Level of the
terrain plus the height of any buildings or woods in the hex. Woods
add one level to the height of the underlying terrain. Buildings add
their total Elevation Level to the height of the terrain they occupy.
     The line-of-sight may be blocked by higher hills, woods, or
buildings. Units never block line-of-sight.

--- PAGE 15 ---
The Viper in Hex A is in a woods hex on top of a Level 2
hill. It has a LOS to the TOG tanks in Hexes B, C, and D. It
cannot see the TOG tank in E because the trees on the
intervening Level 2 hill block the LOS. The Viper can see the
TOG tank in Hex F because it is on a Level 4 hill. The Viper
cannot see the TOG tank in Hex G because the straight-edge
passes along the spine of two hexes. The TOG player declares
that the line-of-sight passes through the trees on the tank’s
right rather than through the clear terrain to the left.
Dead Zones
     The dead zone behind or below the peak of an elevated area
may also block line-of-sight. Dead zones can only be created by
terrain elevations, buildings, woods, or a combination of both. If
the attacker is shooting up at more than one-hex range, the LOS is
blocked if the hex next to the attacker is as high or higher than the
target’s hex. If the attacker is shooting down at more than one-hex
range, the LOS is blocked if the target is directly behind a hex as
high or higher than the attacker’s hex.
     The Liberator in Hex A cannot see the Horatius tanks in
Hexes C, E, or F because the Level 3 terrain creates a dead
zone, The Liberator in Hex A cannot see the Viper in Hex B
because it is behind one level of elevation, which blocks LOS
completely. The Horatius tanks can see the Viper in Hex B
since the buildings are one level high. If the buildings were
three levels high, then the Viper would be in a dead zone.
FIRING ARCS
     Weapons are either mounted in a vehicle’s turret or fixed in the
hull (in either the Hull 1 or Hull 2 position), covering the forward-
firing arc. Turret-mounted weapons have a firing arc similar to the
forward-firing arc, but they can be aligned during the Combat
Phase to face any of the six hexsides. Hull-mounted weapons may
only engage targets in the forward-firing arc, but turreted weapons
can fire at any target.
     During combat, a vehicle’s direct-fire weapons must be fired at
the same target. The vehicle’s missiles may engage the same target
or a different one, however. If a vehicle uses direct-fire weapons to
engage a target outside its forward arc, it may use only the direct-
fire weapons in the turret. Similarly, if a vehicle fires missiles at a
target outside of its forward arc, it may use only the turreted
missiles. It is possible to use hull-mounted missiles to engage a
target in the forward arc while the direct-fire weapons in the turret
engage a target outside of the forward arc, or vice versa.
     For example, the Horatius has two targets that it can
engage, one in its front arc and one to its left. The Horatius
could fire all its weapons at the target in its front arc. It could
also rotate its turret and fire both its turreted direct-fire
weapons and missiles at the target to the left. The tank could
fire its hull-mounted direct-fire weapons at the target in its
front arc and fire its turreted missiles at the target to the left.
Finally, the tank could fire its hull-mounted missiles at the
target in its front arc and fire its turreted direct-fire weapons
at the target to the left.
SHELL AND MISSILE SELECTION
     If the player is firing a Gauss cannon, he must now declare
which type of shell he is using. Each type of Gauss cannon fires a
different variety of shells, as listed in the Weapons Table, p. 55
(HEAP. APDS, or Hammer Head). Note that 150mm and 200mm
cannon cannot fire Hammer Head rounds. All cannons use anti-

--- PAGE 16 ---
personnel rounds against dismounted infantry. (See Infantry for
resolving attacks against dismounted infantry.) It is assumed that
the vehicle carries a sufficient mix of munitions to allow it to fire
any type shell any number of times during the course of a game.
Missile ammunition is limited, however. The number of missiles
available is listed with each vehicle description. If a player is firing
a missile, he may use any of the missile types that his vehicle has
currently available. A vehicle may fire only one SMLM and/or two
TVLGs per turn. After the missile(s) is fired the player should
mark off the appropriate number on the vehicle’s record sheet.
BASE TO-HIT NUMBER
     Once the player decides which weapons he can fire, he must
determine the base to-hit number, which is determined solely by
the range to the target.
     Range is the distance between the attacking unit and its target.
It is also the distance a weapon can fire. The range is determined
by counting the number of hexes from the firing unit to its target.
Following the shortest path to the target, begin at the hex next to
the attacker along the line-of-sight and include the target’s hex.
The range has an effect on how easy or difficult it is to hit the
target, with distant targets generally being harder to hit.
      Some weapons are not able to fire at targets beyond a certain
range. All weapons are given a maximum range. A player may not
attempt to fire a weapon at a target whose range is greater than this
number.
      Each time a missile is fired, the player should blank out an
appropriate space on the vehicle or infantry record sheet. If all
missile boxes have been blanked out, that unit can fire no missiles
for the rest of the game.
BASE TO-HIT NUMBER TABLE
Range (in
hexes)
1
2-3
4-6
7-10
11-15
16-20
Off-
board
Base To-
Hit Number
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
Note to Interceptor players: These base to-hit numbers assume a
Gunnery Skill of 4 for all vehicle gunners. If players wish to use
varying gunnery skills, they may reduce all Base To-Hit Numbers by 4
and add the gunner’s Gunnery skill to the base number.
TO-HIT MODIFIERS
     Having determined the base to-hit number, the player must now
add on the modifiers for terrain, shielding, and other factors. All
applicable modifiers are cumulative, except where noted.
Target Shield Modifier
     Shield factors only apply to attacks by lasers, painting lasers,
MDCs, HELL rounds, GLAD rounds, infantry weapons fire, and
missiles. Attacks by Gauss cannons, other artillery rounds, or Thor
javelins are not affected by the shields. (Though a shield’s field is
proof against energy weapons, it is unable to turn large masses.
The heavier rounds from Gauss cannons are able to penetrate a
shield, The electronic circuitry of a missile is adversely affected by
an active shield, causing it to detonate prematurely. It is not
possible to accelerate a ballistic shell In the speeds necessary to be
effective in space combat, and so Gauss cannons are only found on
land-based vehicles, where the engagement ranges and speeds do
not affect the accuracy of the slower projectiles.)
     All vehicles carry shield generators. These generators cover the
craft’s front, right, left, stem, and bottom. The bottom shield factor
is only used when the craft is being attacked from below, primarily
by mines. The other four shield facings are illustrated below.
Attacks that originate in the front arc use the front shield factors.
Attacks originating from the left, right, or rear arcs use the
appropriate left, right, or stem shield factors.
     Shield factors equal the shield rating divided by 10. This
number is listed in the data section of the vehicle record sheet and
is applied as a negative modifier to the base to-hit number for all
attacks by lasers, missiles, or MDCs.
     The shield factor modifier is negated for the turn if a friendly
painting laser has successfully hit the target during the Painting
segment of that Combat Phase. Regardless of which side is hit, all
shield factors are negated.
Terrain Modifiers
     Terrain also affects the probability of a successful shot because
it makes a hit more difficult. The terrain modifier for the target’s
hex lowers the base to-hit number by the amount listed on the
Terrain Effects Table. A unit occupying a cratered hex applies
the terrain modifiers for both the crater and for the underlying
terrain.
Hull Down Modifier
     Any unit that is grounded in a crater is considered to be hull
down. A crater conceals a large portion of the lower hull and
provides a large defensive advantage to the grounded unit. Any
shot at a hull down vehicle takes a To-Hit Modifier of -2. If the
target is hit, the damage will usually apply to the turret, per the Hit
Location Table.
Dismounted Infantry
     There are no terrain or shield modifiers to the base to-hit
number when firing at dismounted infantry. Damage is handled
differently, as described in the Infantry section of the rules.
Missiles may not be fired at dismounted infantry. Neither can
players directly attack enemy infantry inside of buildings (not just
in a building hex).
Other Modifiers
     Other factors can raise or lower the base to-hit number. Primary
among these are smoke and target painting. Direct damage to the
firing unit’s weapon targeting circuits and computers can also
negatively affect the to-hit number. These factors are discussed in
later sections of the rules.
MODIFIED TO-HIT NUMBER
     The modified to-hit number is equal to the base to-hit number
plus any modifiers that apply. Once the player has determined that
number, he rolls one die. If the result is equal to or less than the
modified to-hit number, his weapon hit its target. If the result is
greater than the modified to-hit number, the shot missed.
     Remember, a result of I is an automatic hit and a 10 is always a
miss.
     For example, the Horatius is firing at a Liberator that is
seven hexes away. The Horatius will fire one SMLM missile,
one 3/6 laser, and one 150mm HEAP round, in that order, The
Liberator is occupying light woods. The Base To-Hit Number
is 9 because of the range. Light woods give a -1 modifier. The
Horatius attacks the Liberator’s right side, which has a Shield
Factor of 5. The Modified To-Hit Number for the laser and
SMLM is 9-1-5=3. The Modified To-Hit Number for the
150mm HEAP Round is 9- 1 = 8. The player must roll a 3 or
less for each laser and missile to make a hit with those
weapons. The 150mm HEAP round needs an 8 or less to hit. In
our example, the player rolls a 4, a 1, and a 6 for the 150mm
round. A 3/6 laser and the 150mm HEAP round do strike the
side of the Liberator.

--- PAGE 17 ---
HIT LOCATION
     All weapons fired from the firing vehicle will strike the same
general location of the target vehicle. The player should roll once
on the Hit Location Table, using the appropriate flight mode
column, to discover which armor section all of his unit’s weapons
will strike. An Attacked Side result means that the weapons hit the
front, stern, left, or right armor, as appropriate. A Turret result
means that the weapons hit the vehicle’s turret armor, and a
Bottom result means that the vehicle’s bottom armor was hit.
HIT LOCATION TABLE
Die
Roll
Normal
Hull Down
TFF*
LAF*
1
Turret
Turret
Bottom
Bottom
2
Turret
Turret
Bottom
Bottom
3
Turret
Turret
Bottom
Bottom
4
Attacked Side
Turret
Bottom
Bottom
5
Attacked Side
Turret
Bottom
Bottom
6
Attacked Side
Turret
Bottom
Bottom
7
Attacked Side
Turret
Bottom
Bottom
8
Attacked Side
Attacked Side
Attacked Side
Bottom
9
Attacked Side
Attacked Side
Attacked Side
Bottom
10
Attacked Side
Attacked Side
Attacked Side
Bottom
*See Optional Rules.
     For example, the Liberator has been struck on the right side
by two weapons. The player makes one roll on the Hit Location
Table. Because he fails a 7, both weapons hit the right side. On
a result of 1 through 3, the turret would have been hit.
DAMAGE
     Once a shot has hit its target and the hit location been
determined, the exact type of damage taken can be calculated.
Each weapon is rated according to the amount of damage it does,
which varies according to the type of weapon or shell used. Each
point of damage that the weapon inflicts will destroy 1 Armor
Point or 1 Internal Component box of the target vehicle. Infantry
and buildings are damaged in a different manner, as described in
the appropriate section of these rules.
Each weapon type has a different damage profile, as shown on the
damage template. Lasers penetrate deeply into armor, while an
SMLM’s damage spreads out more laterally.
DAMAGE TEMPLATE
     The damage template is made up of die-cut diagrams showing
the damage profile for each weapon in the game, except for lasers.
Each shape is labeled for weapon type and is centered by a small
arrow along the top of the shape. Lasers need no template, for their
damage simply descends down a column, The number of boxes
marked off is equal to the strength of the laser.
ARMOR HITS
     Each side of the vehicle has armor, as shown on the Armor
Diagram of the vehicle record sheet. The Armor boxes are
arranged in horizontal rows often. The number of rows depends on
the amount of armor carried. To determine where the armor has
taken damage, the attacker rolls one die to determine the center of
the hit. The defender aligns the arrow of the damage template with
the appropriate damage profile on the rolled column. He lowers the
arrow on the armor diagram until it is above the highest remaining
Armorbox of the indicated column. The area indicated by the
template is the area damaged by the hit. These boxes are marked
off on the armor diagram.
     If a very low or very high number is rolled for the column
location, it is possible that a portion of the damage template will
not cover any armor boxes in the section. The damage template
might also cover an area already damaged. In both cases, the
damage is simply lost.
     For example, two 5-point laser shots and an MDC 8 hit the
front armor of a Horatius, The Horatius has a total of 80
Armor Points on that side. The first laser hits in Column 3,
and is marked off as shown in Diagram 1. The second laser hits
in Column 5. The MDC 8 hits in Column 6, and the damage is
marked off as shown in Diagram 3. The 2 points of armor
missing from Column 5 were hit by the second laser and are
lost, If the MDC 8 had hit in Column 5, the arrow for the MDC
8 hit would be centered over Column 5 and lowered until it
reached an intact Armor box, This would have been in Row 7,
as the laser shot removed the armor from the first six rows in
Column 5. This damage would have appeared as shown in
Diagram 4.
Widowed Armor
     During the Recovery Phase, each player should check his
vehicles for widowed armor. Widowed armor is created when
upper layers of armor are undercut by penetrating hits, as shown in
the diagram below. Any such armor is also marked off even though
it has not been hit. Widowed armor is created when any block of
armor remaining on the Armor Diagram cannot trace a continuous
path of Armor blocks to the bottom row. This path of Armor
blocks must connect at the side and/or top or bottom of the block,
not on a corner, The following diagram illustrates several
possibilities.
     Remember that widowed armor is not removed until the
Combat Phase is complete.

--- PAGE 18 ---
INTERNAL DAMAGE
     Below the Armor Diagram is the Internal Component Diagram.
It is laid out on a grid just like the armor boxes, except that various
sections are outlined and named for an internal component.
     When a damage template extends below the Armor Diagram,
mark off that portion of the Internal Component Diagram in the
same manner as the armor. For all practical purposes, the Internal
Component Diagram is treated as an extension of the Armor
Diagram, with the following exceptions.
     The boxes in the Internal Component Diagram are not affected
by widowing.
     Except where locations are separated (between the turret and
stern and between the right side and bottom), damage is transfer-
able between sections. For example, it is possible that a shot hitting
the front of the vehicle can damage an internal component under
the left side armor,
     Note that the Internal Component Diagram for ground vehicles
is slightly different than that of grav vehicles.
DAMAGE LOCATIONS AND EFFECTS
     Internal systems that are hit (having lost one or more boxes in
the section) become inoperative for the remainder of the game,
except where noted. In some cases, the vehicle will not have any
components to damage in a location. If this is the case, treat the
area as having ballistic protection.
     When an Armor box is hit during a campaign game, it takes
qualified technicians with adequate tools and spare parts ten
minutes to repair the damaged area. Areas indicated by Internal
Component boxes require 30 minutes to fix, and areas under the
Vehicle Destroyed boxes require 60 minutes of repair time each.
The players decide how to determine whether or not adequate
repair facilities are available. Note that repairs to crew and infantry
sections can only patch up that compartment; dead and wounded
crew members cannot be resurrected. Vehicles destroyed by
ammunition explosions cannot be repaired.
TURRET
Ballistic Protection
     Ballistic protection represents the inherent survivability of the
turret’s internal components because of hardening, duplication of
circuitry, and the ruggedness of the system itself. Hits to areas with
ballistic protection have no effect on the vehicle’s performance.
For all purposes except widowing, treat the Ballistic Protection
boxes as Armor.
Communications System (Comm)
     The intervehicle communications gear is damaged, which
prevents the commander from being able to talk with other vehicle
commanders. In team play, this vehicle’s commander cannot talk
to teammates or taunt the enemy. If a player is controlling more
than one vehicle in a battle and receives this hit, he is not allowed
to talk to his other vehicles. The vehicle can no longer engage in
indirect fire, paint targets, call for artillery fire, or receive any
benefit for firing at a painted target. (The exception is when he
fires at a target that he himself has painted.)
Targeting Control Systems (Targ)
     The vehicle’s targeting computers, weapons control linkages,
weapons stabilization controls, and other systems are damaged. For
each box marked off in the Targeting Control System, the vehicle
must apply a -1 modifier to the base to-hit number for any weapons
attacks it makes. Record this modifier in the Fire Mods box on the
record sheet.
Gunner Hit (Gunner)
     The gunner suffers damage and must make a Consciousness
Roll. The Base To-Hit Number to remain conscious is 8. For each
box in the Gunner section that is blanked out, apply a -1 modifier
to the base to-hit number. In other words, use the total number of
blanked-out boxes, not just those blanked out this turn. If the
player rolls higher than the modified base to-hit number, the
gunner is unconscious. Remember, however, that a 1 is an
automatic success and a 10 is an automatic failure. At the End
Phase of the next turn, the gunner may make a die roll to regain
consciousness. If the player rolls lower than or equal to the
modified base to-hit number, the gunner regains consciousness.
     When all the boxes are blanked out, the gunner is dead. If the
vehicle’s gunner and commander are both unconscious, that
vehicle may fire no weapons until one of them regains conscious-
ness.
Turret Weapons Hit (Turret Wpns)
     All the weapons located in the vehicle’s turret are knocked out.
No turreted weapon systems may be used for the rest of the game.
The vehicle may not paint any target for the remainder of the
game.
Commander Hit (Cmdr)
     The commander suffers damage and must make a Con-
sciousness Roll, as described under the Gunner Hit rule above. A
vehicle whose commander is dead or unconscious cannot fire
indirectly, paint targets, or call for artillery fire. If the vehicle’s
gunner and commander are both unconscious, no weapons may be
fired by the vehicle until one of them regains consciousness. An
unconscious commander can regain consciousness in the same
manner as a gunner.
Vehicle Destroyed
     All of the vehicle’s major systems become inoperative. If the
vehicle is moving, it must immediately ground at its current
velocity and take grounding damage, as normal. Crew members
and any mounted infantry squads may exit the vehicle at the
beginning of the next turn, as normal.

--- PAGE 19 ---
STERN
Ballistic Protection
     Ballistic protection represents the inherent survivability of the
stern’s internal components, due to hardening, duplication of
circuitry, and the ruggedness of the system itself. Hits on areas
with ballistic protection have no effect on the performance of the
vehicle. For all purposes except Widowing, treat the Ballistic
Protection boxes as Armor.
Stern Shield (S. Shield)
     Stern shields are rendered inoperative and have a value of 0 for
the remainder of the game. Note, however, that there are two stern
shield locations. Both locations must be hit for the stern shields to
cease functioning.
Maximum Thrust/Movement Reduced by 1/4, 1/2, or 3/4 (1/4,
2, 3)
     This damage indicates that the Maximum Thrust for the vehicle
is reduced by one-quarter, one-half, or three-quarters, with
fractions rounded up. For convenience, consult the Thrust
Reduction Table below.
     Hits to a ground vehicle in this area reduce the vehicle’s
movement points by the same amount. The results are
noncumulative.
THRUST REDUCTION TABLE
Reduced To:
Starting
Maximum
Thrust
3/4
1/2
1/4
1
1
1
0
2
2
1
1
3
2
2
1
4
3
2
1
5
4
3
1
6
5
3
2
7
5
4
2
8
6
4
2
9
7
5
2
10
8
5
3
11
8
6
3
12
9
6
3
13
10
7
3
14
11
7
4
15
11
8
4
     For example, a Liberator has a Thrust of 6. If its thrust
were reduced by one-fourth, it would have a new Thrust of 5.
If its thrust were reduced by three-fourths, it would have a new
Thrust of 2.
Infantry Compartment (Infantry)
     The vehicle’s infantry compartment has been penetrated. If the
vehicle is carrying infantry, the squad might also take damage. For
every 4 points of damage taken in the infantry section, one
infantryman is killed. If the entire location is destroyed, the vehicle
cannot carry infantry and all infantry personnel aboard are killed.
SIDE (LEFT OR RIGHT)
Ballistic Protection
     Ballistic protection represents the inherent survivability of the
sides’ internal components, due to hardening, duplication of
circuitry, and the ruggedness of the system itself. Hits to areas with
ballistic protection have no effect on the vehicle’s performance.
     For all purposes except widowing, treat the Ballistic Protection
boxes as Armor.
Left Shield (L, Shield)
     The left shields are rendered inoperative and have a value of O
for the remainder of the game. Note that there are two left shield
locations. Both locations must be hit before the left shields stop
operating.
Right Shield (R. Shield)
     The right shields are rendered inoperative, and have a value of 0
for the remainder of the game. Note that there are two right shield
locations. Both locations must be hit before the right shields stop
operating.
Left Directional Vanes (Left Vane)
     A left vane hit means that the grav vehicle may no longer turn
to the left. This hit only affects grav vehicles.
Mobility (Mobility)
     A mobility hit means that a ground vehicle has taken a hit on its
tracks/wheels/surface-effect skirt. It can no longer move, but may
change facings.
Right Directional Vanes (Right Vane)
     A right vane hit means that the grav vehicle may no longer turn
to the right. This hit only affects grav vehicles.
Ammo (Ammo Stores Explode)
     Onboard ammunition explodes or an energy weapons capacitor
destructively discharges. On a Base Roll of 7 or less, there is no
explosion. A modifier of –1 is applied to this base number for
every Internal Component block marked off in this location. If
there is an explosion, the vehicle is totally destroyed and cannot be
salvaged. The crew or infantry survives on a Base Roll of 8 or less.
     Apply a modifier of –1 to this base number for every point of
current velocity. Make separate die rolls for any infantry squads or
crew the vehicle carries. Dismounting in this manner counts as
movement for the infantry squad or crew next turn.
FRONT
Ballistic Protection
     Ballistic protection represents the inherent survivability of the
front’s internal components, due to hardening, duplication of
circuitry, and the ruggedness of the system itself, Hits against areas
with ballistic protection have no effect on the performance of the
vehicle. For all purposes except widowing, treat the Ballistic
Protection boxes as Armor.
Terrain Sensing and Reaction Circuits (TS&R)
     When the TS&R system is lost, all terrain speed limits are
reduced by 50 percent of the amount (round fractions up) indicated
for that vehicle. Note that there are two TS&R locations, Both
locations must be hit before the system fails.
Front Shields (F. Shield)
     The front shields are rendered inoperative and have a value of 0
for the remainder of the game. Note that there are two front shield
locations. Both locations must be hit before the front shields stop
operating.
Driver Hit (Driver)
     On a driver hit, the driver must make a Consciousness Roll
similar to the one described under the Gunner Hit rule. If the driver
fails the roil, the vehicle cannot apply any thrust and will continue
in its current direction until it strikes something. At that point, its
current velocity falls to 0. If a Piloting Skill Roll is necessary, the
vehicle will strike the terrain on any die roll result of 2 or greater.
     A driver may regain consciousness in the same manner as a
gunner.

--- PAGE 20 ---
Hull Weapons 1 Hit (Hull Weap 1)
     All the weapons in the vehicle’s Hull 1 location are knocked
out. Any weapon systems located here are destroyed for the rest of
the game.
Hull Weapons 2 Hit (Hull Weap 2)
     All the weapons located in the vehicle’s Hull 2 location are
knocked out. Any weapon systems located here are destroyed for
the rest of the game.
BOTTOM
Bottom Shields (B. Shield)
     Damage to the bottom shields renders them inoperative and
with a value of 0 for the remainder of the game. Note that there are
two bottom shield locations, Both locations must be hit for the
bottom shields to stop operating.
Digging Cannons (Digging)
     Damage to the digging cannons means that the vehicle may not
fire its digging cannons for the remainder of the game.
Helm
     Helm damage means that it is no longer possible to steer the
grav vehicle. The vehicle cannot apply thrust and will continue in
its current direction until it strikes something. At that point, its
current velocity will be reduced to 0. If a Piloting Skill Roll is
necessary, the vehicle will strike the terrain on any die roll result of
2 or more.
Grav Drive
     The grav vehicle’s grav engine is hit and stops functioning. The
vehicle may not move for the rest of the game and it may not
change facing. If the vehicle was moving when hit, it must
immediately ground at its current velocity and take any additional
damage. All other systems (shields and weapons) are still func-
tional.
Engine
     The ground vehicle’s engine is hit and stops functioning. The
vehicle may not move for the rest of the game and it may not
change facing. All other systems (shields and weapons) are still
functional.
Ammo (Ammo Stores Explode)
     Onboard ammunition explodes or an energy weapons capacitor
destructively discharges. There is no explosion on a Base Roll of 7
or less. A modifier of -1 is applied to this base number for every
block marked off in this location. If there is an explosion the
vehicle is totally destroyed and cannot be salvaged. The crew
survives on a Base Roll of 8 or less. A modifier of -1 for every
point of current velocity is applied to this base number. Separate
rolls are made for any mounted infantry squads or crew that the
vehicle carries. Dismounting in this manner counts as the infantry
squad or crew’s movement for the next Movement Phase.
DESTROYING A UNIT
     A grav or ground vehicle is considered destroyed if: (1) all of
the crew is killed, (2) the vehicle suffers an ammunition explosion,
or (3) it suffers a Vehicle Destroyed result.
     Infantry squads are considered destroyed if five of its members
have been killed.
COMBAT IN THE SAME HEX
     An enemy unit and a friendly unit may both occupy the same
hex. Resolve attacks against vehicles in the same hex as normal
and at a Range of 1.
     The side attacked depends on the facing of the enemy unit at the
time that the friendly unit enters the hex. If a friendly unit entered a
hex occupied by an enemy unit on the enemy’s left side, the enemy
unit would be in the friendly unit’s front firing arc, and the enemy
unit would have the friendly unit in its left firing arc.
     Attacks against infantry squads in the same hex are resolved
normally, regardless of facing.
     Infantry squads attacking vehicles in the same hex ignore all
terrain modifiers, including craters, and may choose to attack any
location of the vehicle except the bottom. (See Optional Rules for
exceptions.)

--- PAGE 21 ---
SPECIAL WEAPONS
     Most weapons carried by tanks are energy-based, utilizing the
vehicle’s fusion power plant to generate laser pulses or a mass
driver cannon to accelerate small slugs to unheard-of speeds.
     Unlike space vessels, land combatants can also mount slower
and more conventional weapons that use larger kinetic energy war-
heads.
BALLISTIC WEAPONS (GAUSS CANNONS)
     Most tanks mount at least one type of direct-fire ballistic
weapon, or cannon. These weapons differ from energy weapons
because they fire an explosive shell rather than a stream of energy.
They are similar to the mass driver cannon (MDC) in using a
magnetic field to accelerate a shell down the length of a barrel. The
muzzle velocity of the Gauss cannon projectile is drastically lower
than that of an MDC, however, giving the Gauss cannon a greatly
reduced range in comparison to the MDC. On the other hand,
shields are unable to turn the heavier shell, and so the Gauss
cannon is a more effective weapon at close range.
     A Gauss cannon may fire various types of shells, including
High-Explosive Armor Piercing (HEAP), Armor-Piercing Dis-
carding Sabot (APDS), Hammer Head (HH), or anti-personnel.
Though these shells may all fire from the same gun, they have
different damage profiles. The types of shells available for each
weapon system and its range are given on the Weapons Table, p.
55. All weapons may fire anti-personnel rounds. Ammunition is
unlimited for purposes of this game, but the player must announce
what type of shell is being used prior to firing a Gauss cannon.
Anti-personnel rounds may only be fired at infantry targets.
     The base to-hit number for all Gauss cannon attacks is not
modified by the target’s shield factor.
MISSILES
     In addition to direct-fire weapons such as lasers, mass drivers,
and Gauss cannons, many vehicles and infantry units are equipped
with a limited number of missiles. The two types of anti-vehicular
missiles are SMLM’s (Sub-Munitions Laser-Guided Missile) and
TVLG (Tube or Vertically Launched Laser-Guided). Except for
range and damage profile differences, these missiles use the same
set of rules.
     Missiles may be fired directly at a target, per the Weapons Fire
rules. They use a base to-hit number based on range and all normal
to-hit modifiers (the shield’s field disrupts the circuitry of a missile
and can cause it to explode prematurely). If a target is within a
missile’s firing arc, vehicle-mounted missiles can also fire
indirectly over intervening terrain if a friendly unit has
successfully painted the target that turn. Dismounted infantry
squads may not fire their missiles indirectly.
     A vehicle may fire up to one SMLM and/or two TVLG missiles
alum, regardless of the number of launchers the vehicle has. An
anti-vehicle missile may not be fired at an infantry squad. There
are a limited number of missiles that a vehicle can carry. The
player is responsible for keeping track of the number of missiles
that his vehicle has available. Once a vehicle has fired all its
missiles, it has no more missiles for the rest of the game.
     Vehicles may not trade missiles among themselves during the
course of the game.
INDIRECT MISSILE FIRE
     Vehicle-mounted anti-vehicle missiles do not require a direct
LOS in order to engage their target. As long as another friendly
unit has successfully painted the target in that turn, the missile may
be fired at the target as normal, ignoring the shield factor and line-
of-sight restrictions. Firing arc restrictions do still apply, however.
     For example, the Horatius behind the heavy woods hex does
a not have a LOS to the Liberator on the other side. A Lupis
within the heavy woods hex has a valid LOS to the Liberator
however. In the Painting portion of the Combat Phase the
Lupus successfully paints the Liberator. The Horatius may,
therefore, fire one SMLM at the Liberator, ignoring its shields.
ANTI-PERSONNEL (AP) LASERS
     Any vehicle can mount an anti-personnel (AP) laser, which is
designed specifically to kill infantry but does no damage to armor.
Follow the usual Infantry to-hit procedures for the AP laser.
     An AP laser cannot be used to attack infantry in buildings.
Maximum Range for an AP laser is three hexes.
     AP lasers do not count against the direct fire restrictions.
VULCAN ANTI-MISSILE LASER SYSTEM
     The Vulcan is a weapon system with its own radar to track and
destroy incoming missiles from any direction. It utilizes rapid-fire,
short-range lasers to destroy enemy missiles just before they hit the
vehicle.
     A vehicle can use the Vulcan to engage any missiles that have
scored a hit against it. The Vulcan Anti-Missile To-Hit Table gives
the to-hit numbers for various missile attacks, based on the type of

--- PAGE 22 ---
Vulcan system. The player may decide to engage fewer than the
maximum number of missiles attacking him. He may even decide
not to use the Vulcan system at all. To use the system, the player
must make a separate to-hit roll for each targeted missile. If he
rolls the to-hit number or less, the missile is destroyed and his
vehicle takes no damage. Surviving missiles may make a normal
attack.
     A Vulcan system can only be used once per turn. After the first
enemy attack, the player declares how many missiles he will
engage in that turn. He can use that number of die rolls to meet
missile attacks from various attacking vehicles.
VULCAN ANTI-MISSILE TO-HIT TABLE
Number of Incoming Missiles Engaged
Type
1
2
3
4
5
Vulcan-1
5
2
1
-
-
Vulcan-2
8
4
2
1
4
Vulcan-3
9
5
3
2
1
Vulcan-4
9
6
4
3
2
     For example three vehicles are firing on a Horatius that
mounts a Vulcan-2. The first vehicle hits with two TVLGs. The
Horatius can declare that it will engage three missiles that turn
and then make two of its to-hit rolls against the missiles that
are coming in now. The player must roll a 2 or less to succeed.
The attacks are then resolved normally. The other two vehicles
make their attacks, each in turn. The Horatius is still able to
engage one more incoming missile fired from those other two
vehicles.

--- PAGE 23 ---
INFANTRY
     An infantry squad consists of eight men. They are armed with
small arms, bounce packs, and portable anti-lank missiles or
mortars. These men are controlled abstractly as one squad, and
thus the whole squad must carry out the same action. When
mounted in a vehicle, the infantry squad is unable to perform any
action.
INFANTRY MOVEMENT
     An infantry squad may spend 3 MP per turn when dismounted.
They move like ground vehicles and so may enter any hex not
prohibited to ground vehicles, Instead of moving, a dismounted
squad may mount any vehicle that starts the Movement Phase in its
hex at a Velocity of 0. It then moves with the vehicle as normal.
     When mounted in a vehicle, the infantry squad moves with the
vehicle but cannot fire its weapons in the Combat Phase. A
mounted squad may dismount a vehicle at the end of the vehicle’s
movement as long as the vehicle’s current velocity is 0. The squad
may not move for the rest of the turn. (See Optional Rules for
exceptions.) No more than one squad may be carried inside a
vehicle. An additional squad may be carried on the outside.
     An infantry squad may mount a vehicle that has no infantry
compartment (or a destroyed one). In such a case, they are riding
on the outside of the vehicle and the squad takes damage whenever
its vehicle is hit or takes damage from Grounding. The controlling
player rolls 1D10 to determine how many squad members were
killed. If the vehicle takes a hit and must Ground as a result, the
squad has been hit twice. The controlling player must make two
damage rolls for the squad.
INFANTRY COMBAT
     Infantry fire and to-hit procedures are the same as for vehicles.
The only difference is that infantry units have a 360-degree firing
arc for all weapons, but the range of their personal weapons is
severely limited.
     During the Combat Phase, an infantry squad may perform one
of three actions. It may fire its personal weapons at a target, fire its
anti-tank missiles or mortars, or paint a target. Remember, though,
that mounted infantry may not fire at all.
FIRE PERSONAL WEAPONS
     Infantry squads may fire their personal weapons at any one
target within the normal restrictions. If the target has moved during
the Movement Phase of the turn, the squad may make one attack. If
the target has not moved during the Movement Phase of the turn,
the squad may make two attacks. If the target is in the same hex as
the squad and has not moved, the squad may make three attacks.
Each attack is resolved separately, but only one enemy unit can be
targeted in a turn.
     Infantry weapons fire is affected by the target’s shield factor.
     Once a target is hit, the squad uses the damage template
appropriate to its current strength in men. Infantry weapons
damage is given in the Infantry Effectiveness Table.
INFANTRY EFFECTIVENESS TABLE
Squad
Strength
Weapons
Damage
TVLGs
Available
Mortars
Available
8
IWF9
4
2
7
IWF7
4
2
6
IWF7
4
2
5
IWF5
4
1
4
IWF5
4
1
3
IWF3
3
1
2
IWF3
2
0
1
IWF1
1
0
0
Dead
     Infantry firing personal weapons at targets in the same hex are
assumed to be making a Close Assault. They get to choose the
location attacked, regardless of the vehicle’s facing. A squad can
elect to hit the front, side, stern, or turret, but cannot attack the
bottom of a vehicle.
PAINTING TARGETS
     The squad can use targeting lasers to paint for missiles, lasers,
mass driver cannons, and some artillery shells fired from other
sources.
     If the target is within six hexes, infantry squads need only
declare that they are painting a target. Regardless of shield factors,
the squad will succeed in painting the target on a die roll of 9 or
less, minus the number of casualties the squad has taken. For these
purposes, assume that an infantry squad that started the game with
less than eight men has taken the appropriate number of casualties.
Infantry squads cannot paint targets at ranges greater than 6.

--- PAGE 24 ---
TVLG MISSILE FIRE
     The squad may carry up to 4 TVLG anti-vehicle missiles. For
casualty purposes, the last four men in the squad are considered to
be carrying the TVLGs. The squad can fire one, some, or all its
remaining TVLGs in one turn. The missile fire is resolved in the
normal manner, except that the squad cannot engage in indirect
fire.
MORTAR SQUADS
     Some special infantry squads are armed with two light mortars.
These squads do not have any TVLG anti-vehicle weapons. When
the mortar squad is firing directly, they use the normal to-hit
procedure, but are not modified for shields, and their maximum
range is 20 hexes.
     To operate a light mortar requires a minimum of three
personnel. That means a squad that has taken losses might not have
sufficient personnel to operate one or both mortars. (See the
Infantry Effectiveness Table.)
Indirect Mortar Fire
     A mortar fires small, laser-guided rounds and can be fired
indirectly. After the forward observer has painted the target, the
mortar round homes in on it. The to-hit procedure for a painted
mortar round is the same as for a vehicle firing an indirect missile.
If a mortar round strikes a building or a vehicle, determine the
damage with an IWF7 template.
     Light mortar squads may also fire a small anti-personnel round.
In this case, all they need is an observer who can see the target. It
is not necessary to paint the target. The player makes a normal to-
hit roll, ignoring any shield factors and terrain modifiers. If the
round hits the target hex, all dismounted infantry squads take
damage, per the Dismounted Infantry Casualties rules below.
DISMOUNTED INFANTRY CASUALTIES
     Dismounted infantry are considered to be dispersed throughout
the 200-meter hex. When firing at dismounted infantry in woods,
rubble, buildings, or craters, no modifier is applied against the base
to-hit number. Attacks against infantry inside buildings are carried
out according to the Building Rules, p. 32. Missile rounds may not
be used to attack a dismounted infantry squad.
     If the round hits, roll 1Db. Then modify the result by
subtracting the normal terrain to-hit modifier from the result (-1,
-2, or -3). Cross-reference the weapon type with the modified to-hit
roll on the Infantry Damage Table below, to find the number of
infantry lost. Note that the damage can be 0.
     For each squad member killed, mark off one box on the
appropriate infantry record. As a squad takes damage, its effec-
tiveness declines. The Infantry Effectiveness Table shows what the
squad can do as it takes casualties. Remember that all damage for
infantry squads is taken after all fire is resolved. The last four
infantrymen are assumed to be operating the squad’s TVLG
missiles.
INFANTRY DAMAGE TABLE
Laser Damage Points, Weapons Type, or
Cannon Size
Modified Die Roll
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
20 (200mm)
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
3
3
3
4
5
15 (150mm)
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
3
3
3
4
12 (MDC 12)
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
3
3
4
10 (l00mm/MDCl0)
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
I
2
2
3
3
3
8 (MDC8)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
3
3
7 (50mm)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
2
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
2
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
2
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
2
3 (25mm)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
IWF9
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
4
4
4
4
4
IWF7
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
3
3
3
4
IWF5
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
3
3
3
IWF3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2
2
2
2
IWFl
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
AP Laser
0
0
1
1
1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Mortar
0
0
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
HAFE-I
0
1
2
2
3
3
4
5
6
6
7
8
Minefield
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

--- PAGE 25 ---
CONCEALED INFANTRY
     A dismounted squad can effectively hide from observation and
thus from attacks. Rather than moving, a dismounted infantry
squad may declare that it is concealing itself during its Movement
Phase. During the following turn, the squad may not be engaged by
any enemy unit not in the squad’s hex. Additionally, the concealed
infantry squad may not move, fire any weapons, or paint a target
until it is declared active again.
     The unit may become active during the Declare Weapons Fire
portion of the Combat Phase. The squad may then engage any
target normally. Enemy units that have not yet declared their fire in
that phase may engage the infantry squad, per the normal Combat
rules. By waiting until other units have declared their fire for the
turn, an infantry squad can get a free shot at a target without
having to take any return fire. Note that the infantry squad is a
valid target during the turn that it declared that it was concealing
itself.
     Concealed infantry units may not engage in Opportunity Fire.
RECOMBINING INFANTRY SQUADS
     If two infantry squads occupy the same hex and perform no
other actions for one turn, members from one squad can be
reassigned to another squad during the End Phase. This transfer of
personnel can also include equipment, but no squad can operate
more than four TVLGs or two mortars. Remember, too, that no
squad has more than eight members. Recombined infantry squads
must be assigned to one of the parent platoons for movement
purposes.
DISMOUNTED VEHICLE CREW
     A vehicle crew will sometimes survive the destruction of its
vehicle. If the crew escapes, place a Crew counter next to the
vehicle. In the next turn, the crew may move at a rate of one hex
per turn. A dismounted crew cannot make attacks, paint targets,
call in artillery fire, or recombine with an infantry squad. Except
for these restrictions, the Crew counter is subject to all infantry
rules. This rule is especially useful when a player is attempting to
maintain troop quality.

--- PAGE 26 ---
BUILDINGS
     Cities have always created special problems for military
operations. The many buildings among the long, narrow streets of
urban areas block line-of-sight and provide the enemy with hiding
places and protection from weapons fire. These factors obviously
call for unique tactics and operations. From the earliest history of
warfare up to the present day, combat in an urban area has been the
most costly and destructive form of warfare known to man.
     Buildings are rated by their Elevation Level (stories) and the
number of Armor Points that each level has. (A level is 20 meters,
and so each level of a building contains four to six actual floors.)
As urban structures are not designed to withstand fire from modem
combat weapons, they can be reduced to rubble very quickly.
    Each Building Record Sheet shows a block that is 10 boxes high
by 40 boxes wide. Each row represents one of the building’s
stories, numbered one through ten. When filling out the record
sheet, the player should cross off any excess rows at the top. The
building’s armor factor can range from I to 40, and that same value
is used for each story. The player should block out columns so that
each story consists of a row of boxes equal to the building’s armor
factor. When the player is finished, the Armor Diagram should be
a rectangle that is as high as the building’s elevation and as wide as
the building’s armor factor.
MOVEMENT EFFECTS
     Vehicles are assumed to be moving through the streets and
alleyways in the building hex. Vehicles can never enter the
building. It costs 1 VP to move into a building hex, but the speed
limit is lower than in open terrain, as shown by the Terrain Effects
Table.
     When dismounted infantry is in a building hex, the unit may
declare entry into the building instead of moving. An infantry unit
can enter at Level 1, 2, or 3. Once inside, the infantry squad can
only change one Elevation Level a turn.
     An infantry squad can choose to exit a building from any level
rather than moving. When moving out of a building, a dismounted
infantry unit may not mount a vehicle until the next Movement
Phase. An infantry unit may also move up and down levels. Each
turn, the unit may move one level.
COMBAT EFFECTS
     Buildings may block line-of-sight in the same manner as trees.
A building’s height is added to the Elevation Level of the hex that
it occupies.
     Buildings may be fired on as normal, but without to-hit
modifiers for terrain.
     Buildings take damage a little differently than normal. Once a
hit occurs, the player rolls a die to determine which level has been
struck. If the result is higher than the height of the building, then
the topmost surviving level of the building has been hit.
     Align the damage template sideways with the arrow pointing to
the appropriate level, then slide the template over until the first full
armor block is reached. Fill in the template as normal.
     If all of the armor boxes on one level are destroyed, all levels
above it collapse and are destroyed. If the bottom level is
destroyed, then the whole building collapses and is destroyed.
Replace the building counter with a rubble counter. Rubble does
not block line-of-sight. Any infantry squad caught in a destroyed
level is totally eliminated. Units outside of a building that is
rubbled are not affected. The effects of rubbling a building take
place at the End Phase of the turn.
     Infantry that is inside a building may fire. For line-of-sight
purposes, consider the squad lobe at the elevation of the level they
occupy, plus the level of the hex.
     Larger buildings do provide some protection for infantry. While
a squad occupies a building, it may not be fired upon directly. Only
the building can be attacked.
     The infantry unit does not take damage until the last five armor
blocks of their level have taken damage. Whenever one of those
five blocks is damaged, the damage value of the weapon system or
round is cross-referenced to the Infantry Damage Table, as normal.
     The building counters represent all of the buildings in the built-
up area. It is very easy to destroy one building, but an entire city
block is much more resilient. The randomness of the hit locations
represents the fact that multiple individual buildings must be
destroyed in order to significantly damage a city block. The hit
location procedure is not any reflection on the relative difficulty of
targeting and destroying a single stationary building.

--- PAGE 27 ---
CENTURIONS
     Strong and innovative leadership is necessary for the combat
efficiency and effectiveness of any military unit. No matter how
good the equipment or the training of the individual soldier,
without leadership an army is just rabble waiting to be swept away.
     Each player has one Centurion who is in charge of all of the
player’s units (normally three to five platoons of three vehicles
each). These are known collectively as a Century. The Centurion
should be assigned to one of the player’s vehicles. He takes the
place of the vehicle commander, and so whatever damage the
commander takes applies to the Centurion.
     A Centurion cannot be assigned to an infantry squad rather than
a vehicle. This is because the squad does not have the necessary
communications systems to allow him to control a battle.
     The unit’s Centurion performs three functions in the game. He
can affect who wins the Initiative, decide when a friendly platoon
moves during the Movement Phase, and is necessary to call in
attacks by offboard artillery and orbital fire support.
LEADERSHIP RATING
     In each scenario, the Leadership Rating of the opposing
Centurions is given. In most cases, the two Centurions have
equivalent ratings, and so neither side has a Leadership Advantage.
In such case, the movement sequence is not affected.
     When one Centurion does have a higher rating than the other,
he has a Leadership Advantage equal to the difference between the
two ratings. For example, if a TOG Centurion has a Leadership
Rating of 2 and a Renegade Centurion has a rating of 4, the
Renegade side has a Leadership Advantage of 2 points.
     There are two ways to use these Advantage Points during a
turn. First, the player can subtract all, some, or none of the points
from his Initiative Roll at the start of the Movement Phase for the
turn.
     Points not expended to modify the Initiative Roll can be used to
delay or advance the movement of any of the player’s platoons.
For every three full Advantage Points remaining, the player can
pass on moving one platoon until later in the movement sequence.
At that later point, he will move the units of that platoon imme-
diately after the normal movement of another platoon. He can also
use the points to move a platoon at the start of his portion of the
Movement Phase.
     Players may not save Leadership Advantage Points for other
turns.
     For example, the Renegade player has 3 Leadership
Advantage Points. Rather than using them to modify the
Initiative Roll, he saves them until his units are to be moved.
The Renegade player wins the Initiative and decides to be
Player A. On his turn to move the units of a platoon, he may
move one platoon as normal or elect to expend the 3 points to
pass on moving that platoon. If he passes, Player A may move
the passed platoon immediately after he has moved another
platoon later in the turn. For example, he might wait until
after moving his last platoon and then move the passed
platoon. He might also wait until midway into the movement of
his platoons, and decide to move the passed unit then.
LOSS OF CENTURION
     Loss of the Centurion can, obviously, have disastrous results for
the Century. If a player’s Centurion is killed, knocked uncon-
scious, put out of communication, or has his vehicle destroyed, the
Leadership Rating for the Century is reduced to 0 and the
difference between the sides is recalculated.
     Active Centurions are necessary to call in offboard artillery,
orbital fire support, and air strikes, If a player’s Centurion is killed,
knocked unconscious, put out of communication, or has his vehicle
destroyed, the Century cannot use any of its offboard assets
(though current missions still come in),
     A Centurion whose vehicle has been knocked out cannot
transfer to another vehicle because the special communications and
encryption devices needed to control the Century have been lost in
the wreckage of the original vehicle,
CENTURION ADVANCEMENT
     An average Centurion usually has a Leadership Rating of 2.
Unless otherwise specified by the scenario, assume that both
Centurions have a Leadership Rating of 2. The players may also
choose to randomly generate the starting Leadership Rating for
their Centurions by rolling the die before the start of the game. See
the Leadership Rating Table below.
LEADERSHIP RATING TABLE
Die Roll
Leadership Rating
1
1
2
1
3
2
4
2
5
2
6
2
7
2
8
2
9
3
10
3

--- PAGE 28 ---
LEADERSHIP RATING ADVANCEMENT
     Players may keep the same Centurion for future games. To do
so, the player should keep track of the level of victory or defeat his
Centurion achieves in the game. (Victory Levels are given in the
published scenarios or can be calculated as described in Scenario
Design). Point values for each type of victory are given in the
Advancement Points Table.
ADVANCEMENT POINTS TABLE
Victory Level
AP Earned
Decisive Victory
3
Substantive Victory
2
Marginal Victory
1
Draw
0
Marginal Defeat
-1
Substantive Defeat
-2
Decisive Defeat
-3
     For every 5 Advancement Points that a Centurion gains, he
increases his Leadership Rating by 1. For every 5 points that a
Centurion loses, he decreases his Leadership Rating by 1. The
Leadership Rating Table below shows the Leadership Ratings for
Centurions with various Advancement Point levels.
LEADERSHIP RATING TABLE
Total Advancement Points
Leadership Rating
-6 to –10
0
-1 to –5
1
0 - 4
2
5 - 9
3
10 - 14
4
15 - 19
5
20 - 24
6
25 – 30
7
     Beginning Centurions start with a Leadership Rating of 2.
     Negative Leadership Ratings are also possible.

--- PAGE 29 ---
OPTIONAL RULES
     The following rules are presented to enhance and expand the
Centurion game. Before the start of a game, the players should
review these rules and agree on which ones they will use.
ALTERNATE GRAV MOVEMENT MODES
     The preceding movement rules apply when a grav vehicle is
operating in its normal flight mode (NF), that is, about one meter
above the ground. Grav vehicles may also choose to operate in
Tree-Top Flight mode (TTF) or in Low-Altitude Flight mode
(LAF). While operating in TTF, the grav vehicle is about 20
meters off the ground, ignoring trees and low buildings for LOS
and movement purposes. While operating in LAF, the vehicle is
flying high enough to ignore all terrain for movement and LOS.
Though these two modes increase the maximum speed that a
vehicle can safely travel (up to 900kph in LAF), the vehicle
becomes an easy target for any enemy unit that spots it.
TTF AND NF MOVEMENT
     At the start of the Acceleration portion of the Movement Phase,
the player may expend Thrust Points to raise or lower a grav
vehicle one level. It costs 1 Thrust Point to move from normal
flight to Tree-Top Flight and 1 Thrust Point to move from Tree-
Top Flight to Low-Altitude Flight, and vice versa. A vehicle that
moves down from TTF or LAF is immediately subject to the
terrain speed limits of the hex that it occupies.
     Tree-Top Flight mode allows a grav vehicle to ignore all terrain
and one Level of buildings, but such vehicles must still pay VP
Costs for crossing contour lines as in NF mode. The vehicle treats
the terrain features as clear terrain for speed limit purposes.
     In Low-Altitude Flight mode, a grav vehicle ignores all terrain
and contour lines for movement and line-of-sight purposes. The
vehicle may accelerate up to 75 VP, but air resistance prevents it
from going faster. It costs a LAF vehicle 1 VP to enter any hex.
STACKING
     Normal stacking limitations are in force for each flight level. In
other words, as many vehicles as desired can occupy the same hex
at the same flight level.
COMBAT
     A vehicle operating in TTF mode is one level higher than the
terrain it is in for line-of-sight purposes. In LAF mode, line-of-
sight is never blocked.
     All attacks against units utilizing NF mode are handled per the
normal Combat rules, except where noted below.
     Attacks between units operating in the same flight mode are
handled per the normal Combat rules except where noted below.
     Attacks by a unit operating in NF or TTF mode against a target
operating in LAF mode use the target’s bottom shield rating in the
to-hit number modifications, and all damage is taken against the
bottom.
     Attacks by a unit operating in NF mode against a target
operating in TTF mode use the target’s bottom shield rating in to-
hit number calculations, but damage may be taken against either
the bottom or the appropriate facing. Use the TTF Hit Location
Table below to determine the hit location, adding the Range to the
die roll.
     A Horatius is operating at TTF, five hexes away from a
Liberator on the ground. The line-of-sight between the two
vehicles would normally be blocked by a light woods hex,
Because the Horatius is at TTF the woods are ignored for line-
of-sight purposes. The Horatius attacks the Liberator and the
attack is handled as normal. The Liberator’s attacks on the
Horatius are also resolved normally, but the bottom shields are
used and the TTF Hit Location Table replaces the normal Hit
Location Table. To determine the damage from his successful
attacks, the Liberator’s player rolls a die and adds 5 for the
Range. A modified result of 8 -10 means that the Horatius is hit
on the left side. A modified result of 1 - 7 results in a hit to the
bottom armor.
TTF HIT LOCATION TABLE
Modified Die Roll*
Result
1 – 7
Bottom
8 – 10
Attacked side
*Add Range
LOSS OF GRAV DRIVE
     Loss of the grav drive while operating close to the ground is
serious enough. Its loss at 50 meters above the surface normally
results in the vehicle’s total destruction.
     If the grav drive is knocked out while the vehicle is at NF, it
must immediately ground at its current velocity.
     If the grav drive is lost while operating at TTF the vehicle must
also ground, adding 2 to its current velocity.
     Loss of the grav drive while at LAF results in immediate
grounding, with 10 added to the vehicle’s current velocity.
ARTILLERY
     All artillery attacks against units operating at NF, TTF, and
LAF are resolved normally, except that HAFE rounds have no
effect on vehicles operating at LAF.
INFANTRY
     The bounce packs worn by infantry have a governing device
that prevents the soldier from exceeding a set velocity. The device
temporarily boosts the strength of the grav fields and applies a
braking force that slows the soldier down whenever that safe
velocity is exceeded. (Though the pack makes the soldier almost
weightless, his mass stays the same. Striking the ground at 60
kilometers per hour - weightless or not - still means that soldier
ends up splattered all over the countryside).
     Combat troops use this safety feature to engage in some
innovative tactics. The most common of these is to jump out of a
moving grav vehicle as it speeds over a target. The ground is too
close to make this lactic useful while operating in NF mode, but it
is very useful when attacking at TTF or LAF.
Infantry may only mount a vehicle that is operating at NF, and then
only if the vehicle starts the turn in their hex and at a current
velocity of 0. Infantry may dismount a vehicle at NF only at the
end of the vehicle’s movement and only if the vehicle’s current
velocity is 0.
     Bounce infantry may dismount a TTF or LAF grav vehicle at
any time during its movement, and they are then placed in the hex
at ground level. The dismounting infantry may be engaged by
Opportunity Fire but the unit does not receive any terrain modi-
fiers. Dismounting units engaged during the normal Combat Phase
may be attacked per the normal rules.
     Infantry dismounting from a TTF or LAF vehicle onto a
building hex can declare that they are landing in the top level of
the building rather than outside of it.

--- PAGE 30 ---
ARTILLERY
     Artillery in the 69th century is grav mounted, capable of
delivering accurate and devastating fire from distances of up to
100km. Effective use of assigned artillery support can give even
greatly out-numbered forces victory.
GENERAL ARTILLERY RULES
     Artillery support is assigned as fire missions per turn in every
scenario. Each assigned fire mission gives the player one artillery
attack per turn.
     Artillery attacks are called in against a hex, not a vehicle or
other unit. Artillery can be called into attack any hex on the board.
regardless of whether or not a friendly unit has a valid LOS to the
target hex. Each artillery attack takes one turn to arrive. Thus,
during the End Phase of a turn, the player must record the target
hex and type of round used (see Artillery Rounds). During the
next turn’s Combat Phase, the artillery attack on the hex is
resolved.
     If a friendly unit has a valid line-of-sight to the target hex on the
turn that the artillery attack arrives, the hex is hit on a result of 9 or
less. The round scatters on any other result. The observing unit
cannot paint during the turn that the artillery lands. (It is using its
painting lasers to mark the target hex, though the painting is
automatic and not restricted by range). An observer can only target
one hex per turn.
     If there is no friendly unit spotting, the artillery attack will hit
on a result of 6 or less. The attack scatters on any other result. If an
artillery attack misses its target hex, where it lands is determined
on the Scatter Diagram.
Scattering
     Artillery rounds that miss their targets are subject to scattering.
Roll 1D10 to determine in which direction the round goes and
consult the Scatter Diagram below. A die result of 1 - 6 means that
the round lands in the appropriately marked adjacent hex. If the
result is 7- 10, the round will travel one additional hex, which calls
for a second roll to determine direction. A second 7 - 10 die result
means that the round is another hex off in range. The player must
roll again to see where it lands. The round will detonate in the hex
where it lands, and will affect all units as normal.
ARTILLERY ROUNDS
     Artillery can fire a variety of munitions. When an artillery
attack is plotted, the player should also determine the type of round
to be used. Note that some of the rounds affect both the target hex
and the six adjacent hexes, while others require a special
modification to the General Artillery Rules.
HAFE-I Rounds
     The HyperVelocity Airburst Flechette Explosive—Improved
(HAFE-I) round is designed to explode into thousands of small
flechettes, saturating the surrounding area with deadly, high-speed
fragments. Because the flechettes are too large to be stopped by
shields, the shields do not reduce damage to vehicles.
     All General Artillery Rules apply.
     The HAFE-I affects both the target hex and the six adjacent
hexes. Woods are reduced to rubble. All vehicles in the affected
hexes take 10 points of damage on every facing, including the
turret, except the bottom. The damage moves straight across the
rows, left to right until all 10 points are used. Buildings take 10
points of damage on each level. All dismounted infantry squads in
the hexes take damage per the Dismounted Infantry Casualty rules.
If a hex is rubbled, all unoccupied craters in the hex are removed.
     Because combat is simultaneous, a woods hex reduced to rubble
by HAFE-I rounds will still block line-of-sight until the end of the
turn.
ADM Rounds
     Artillery Dispensed Mines are fired to a target hex, per the
General Artillery Rules. They do no damage when they hit, but
scatter land/grav mines that will affect vehicles and dismounted
personnel. The target hex is considered to be covered with mines.
All general rules for artillery rounds apply. See Mines, p.41, for
further details. There are no advantages for overlapping mine-
fields.
AMA Rounds
     Anti-Mine Artillery (AMA) rounds may be fired into a target
hex, per the General Artillery Rules. They send out a strong
gravitic pulse that detonates all the mines in one hex. All General
Artillery Rules apply. See Mines for further details.
HELL Rounds
     The most deadly artillery round in use is the HELL round.
When a HELL round goes off, it releases enough gravitic energy to
cause an uncontrolled fusion reaction, This type of round is very
clean, leaving little tactically significant radiation, but it does turn
the topsoil to glass. It will also turn any type of terrain to clear
terrain, and will literally melt the armor off vehicles. All General
Artillery Rules apply.
     If a vehicle is in the hex where a HELL round explodes, several
plagues will befall it. First, the vehicle is automatically grounded at
its current velocity, causing damage to the bottom. Second, all
armor facings, except the bottom, take 100 points of damage,
minus the shield rating. Thus, if the front of a tank has a Shield
Rating of 70, and a HELL round goes off in its hex, the tank will
take 30 points of damage on the Front (100-70 = 30). A similar
calculation is made for the Left, Right, Turret (using the front
shields), and Stern Facings. Damage is applied in the same manner
as Grounding Damage.

--- PAGE 31 ---
All dismounted infantry squads are destroyed in the target hex,
as are all unshielded buildings and trees. There is no rubble,
Unoccupied craters are removed from the target hex.
     The gravitic aftershock of the HELL round affects all grav
vehicles in the adjacent hexes. All such vehicles must make a die
roll of 5 or less to avoid immediate grounding at their current
velocity. Tree hexes adjacent to the blast hex are reduced to rubble.
     Because combat is simultaneous, a woods or building hex that
is reduced to rubble by HELL rounds will still block LOS until the
end of the turn.
     Shielded buildings take damage from HELL rounds differently.
The amount of damage that gets through the shield is calculated as
for vehicles. Damage is marked off in rows, starting at the top of
the building and working down, left to right.
     Infantry squads inside the building are destroyed by any
damage reaching the last five boxes of the level that they occupy.
     If multiple HELL rounds land in the same hex, their effects are
resolved separately.
     HELL round damage takes effect no matter what the vehicle’s
flight mode.
Smoke Rounds
     An artillery attack can be used to lay a column of smoke three
hexes long and one hex wide, centered on the target hex in any
orientation the attacker chooses. These rounds are fired in the End
Phase section of the turn. Use all the normal Smoke rules and
General Artillery Rules.
Crater Rounds
     Artillery may also be used to create blast craters in the ground
to give vehicles and infantry some form of protection. A Crater
round landing in a hex digs a crater in the same manner as a
digging charge, providing hull-down protection for vehicles and
infantry. A Crater round uses all the General Artillery Rules.
GLAD Round
     The Guided by Laser,
Artillery-Delivered round
(GLAD) requires a painted
target during the turn of the
attack. All other General
Artillery Rules apply,
except that a missed round
does not scatter. On the turn
the GLAD round arrives, the
painter must have
successfully painted a
vehicle in the target hex or
in any of the adjacent hexes.
     If there is no painted
target, the GLAD round will
attack any unpainted vehicle
in the target hex, at the
attacker’s choice.
GLAD attacks are handled
as normal missile attacks.
The Base To-Hit Number is 9, modified normally for terrain,
shields, and painting.
     If the GLAD misses, it hits the ground with no damage. When a
GLAD hits a vehicle, it will most often hit the stem or the turret
since it is making a top-down attack. See the GLAD Hit Location
Table.
GLAD HIT LOCATION TABLE
Die Roll
Effect
1 - 3
Turret Hit
4 – 10
Stern Hit
     The damage from GLAD is the same as from a 150mm HEAP
round. GLAD rounds cannot be used against infantry.
ON-BOARD ARTILLERY FIRE
     Artillery is always located offboard. When playing break-
through scenarios, however, it is possible for an artillery unit to
find itself overrun and on the defensive.
     Artillery weapons are normally variations on the gravitic
cannon (GPA or GPE). The gravitic cannon uses phased gravity
pulses to accelerate its projectiles along the length of its barrel.
Thus, the cannon launches its munitions at very precise speeds and
trajectories, making its indirect fire accurate and fast. The system
is incapable of launching indirect fire at a range of less than four
kilometers, however.
     Treat all GPA or GPE weapon attacks against targets at a Range
of 20 hexes or less as a normal artillery attack, with a Base To-Hit
Number of 7. The GPA/E cannot be fired indirectly at any target at
a Range of 20 hexes or less. These targets must be fired on directly
from a valid LOS. All GPA/E attacks hit in the turn that they are
fired.
     The GPA/E may use any artillery round for its direct fire attacks
except HELL rounds, which have a safety interlock that prevents
their being armed within one kilometer of the firing unit. HELL
rounds may only be used against targets at a Range of 6 or more.
Except where noted above, use all other General Artillery Rules,
including Scattering.
     On-board artillery may not use Opportunity Fire.
COMBAT ENGINEERING VEHICLES
     Armies have deployed engineering vehicles for millennia to
facilitate the advance of combat troops. These vehicles serve to
clear obstacles that hamper the movement of friendly troops, open
pathways through minefields, and create fortified positions. Even
with the introduction of grav vehicles, specialized combat engi-
neering vehicles still play an important role in a Legion’s success.
     Engineering vehicles are standard grav vehicles with some of
their offensive weaponry replaced by specialized engineering
equipment.
     If a vehicle has an engineering attachment, it is considered to be
an engineering vehicle and may perform any or all of the following
activities, in addition to its normal movement and combat.
CLEARING TREES
     An engineering attachment normally includes a planar laser.
The planar laser consists of two projectors that create a continuous
sheet of coherent light in a gap between them. The sheet is capable
of cutting through most trees.
     The player may tun the planar laser on and off as desired during
the engineering vehicle’s movement. The vehicle pays normal VP
for moving through terrain, but if the engineering vehicle is
operating at NE, it will cut a path through any woods hex through
which it travels. No path is cut if the vehicle does not leave the
hex, however. The player should place a path counter down on the
woods hex to indicate this. The path is aligned to face the same
direction that the engineering vehicle took through the hex.
     For the remainder of the game, grav vehicles may treat the
cleared woods hex as though it had a road through it. All other
vehicles and dismounted infantry treat the hex as a normal heavy
or light woods hex.

--- PAGE 32 ---
An engineering vehicle is at NF, its planar laser is on, and it
moves through three light woods hexes and stops in a fourth,
as shown above, The three hexes through which the vehicle has
moved are considered to have a path cut through them. The
fourth hex does not, and will not, until the engineering vehicle
moves out of the hex. Path counters are laid on the map, and
aligned with the vehicle’s direction of travel.
CLEARING MINEFIELDS
     Minefields may be cleared only by engineering vehicles
traveling at NP. The engineering attachment sends out a combi-
nation of gravitic and magnetic pulses that detonate the mines
harmlessly to create a safe pathway through the minefield. Some of
the mines in the field are set to detonate after a delay of a few
seconds, however, in order to knock out any engineering vehicles
attempting to clear the field.
     When an engineering vehicle enters a mine hex, hidden or
otherwise, at NP, the player rolls the die. On a result of 9 or less,
he succeeds in clearing a pathway through it. A path counter is laid
down and aligned to the vehicle’s direction of travel, just as in
cutting a pathway through trees. The pathway is not laid down
until the vehicle moves through the hex, however. If the vehicle
ends its movement in a mine hex, the roll to clear a pathway is
made, and any minefield attacks are resolved. It is only after the
vehicle moves out of the minefield that the path counter is placed
down.
     If the player had rolled a 10, the engineering vehicle would be
attacked by a mine as normal.
     Any unit that moves along a cleared pathway will not be
attacked by the hex’s mines. Any unit that does NOT travel along
the path is subject to normal minefield attacks.
DIGGING CHARGES
     Vehicles with an engineering attachment are equipped with
double the number of cratering charges (eight instead of four). The
charges are used with digging cannons in the usual manner. To
keep track of the extra charges, players may use the Infantry
TVLG Missile boxes on the record sheet.
     The engineering attachment is treated as a normal weapons
system, except that it must be mounted in the hull and it takes up
one space in Hull 1 and one space in Hull 2.
DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS
     Ground-based defensive installations are static turrets mounting
ground weapons to protect some planetary facility. They are
normally one part of a massive space defense system used to
provide strategic targets such as cities and industrial centers with a
defense against orbital bombardment. Such defense systems
consist of multiple HELL missile launchers, bays of laser arrays
for use against orbital ships, shield generators that cover the target
area, and static defense installations. These systems normally make
the city or industrial center proof against attack from space, and
attacks by ground troops difficult. To destroy such a complex
usually takes a combined effort by space and ground forces.
Below are rules to use installations both in Centurion and
Interceptor.
INSTALLATION TYPE
     Four typical defensive installations are described below. For
Centurion/Interceptor purposes only the point/ground defense
weapon systems are described. A typical ground-based space
defense system would have multiple numbers of these installations
and would also control massive arrays of lasers for use against
orbiting capital ships. These laser arrays, or bays, are incapable of
engaging ground forces and so are disregarded.

--- PAGE 33 ---
An installation takes up one hex, and is treated as a building for
movement and line-of-sight purposes. Its shield generator creates a
shield over its own hex and the adjacent hexes. The installation’s
point defense weapons are mounted in a turret elevated on a pylon
sufficiently high to be twenty meters taller than the terrain in the
surrounding hex.
     At least three infantry squads are assigned to any installation.
The following table shows some of the most common installations
used in this game.
INSTALLATION TABLE
Type
Turret Weapons
Missile
Launchers
Shield*
1
Two 7.5/6 Lasers,
200mm Gauss Cannon
1
100
2
Two 200mm Gauss
Cannons, 7.5/6 Laser
2
100
3
Two 200mm Gauss
Cannons, Vulcan-3
3
100
4
Vulcan-4, Two 200mm
Gauss Cannons
4
100
*Interceptor players may use variable shields instead. The typical
installation has 1,600 Power Points available to it. Installation
shields require seven times the normal power.
INSTALLATION RECORD SHEET
     The defensive installation building has an Armor Factor of 40
and is topped by a turret with 100 Armor Points. The Defensive
Installation Record Sheet is essentially a building record sheet
combined with the turret section of the vehicle record sheet. The
player should fill out a record sheet for each installation in the
normal way. The height of the installation is one level higher than
the height of the surrounding hexes.
MOVEMENT
     Installations may not be moved nor change facing during the
game. For all movement purposes, ground units should treat the
installation as a building.
COMBAT
     Except where noted, all rules governing Combat also apply to
installations.
Firing Arcs
     An installation’s weapons are mounted in a turret. When
engaging ground targets, the turret has the same firing arc as a
vehicle turret. The weapons mounted in the turret may only fire at
one target per turn. When engaging targets on the Interceptor
map, use the firing arc shown in the following diagram.
     An installation’s turreted Gauss cannons may not fire into the
Interceptor map. Laser weapons may only fire at targets in the
atmosphere or the atmosphere/space interface. HELL missiles may
be used against targets in the atmosphere, in the interface, or in
space, as long as the target is in the installation’s firing arc.
Shields
     The shields of a defensive installation protect the buildings both
in the installation’s hex and in the adjacent hexes. Rather than
projecting a hemispherical bubble (a technological impossibility
because of the scale), the installation generators are connected to
individual shield projectors on each building. Thus, the streets and
alleyways are normally unprotected.
     When firing at a building hex protected by a defensive
installation’s shield, the to-hit number is modified by the defensive
installation’s shield factor. Vehicles and dismounted infantry not
inside the building do not get this advantage. They do receive the
terrain modifier for being in a building hex, however.
DAMAGE
     The hit location of any successful attack against a defensive
installation is resolved in the same manner as for a building.
However, any hits that strike the upper level hit the turret.
     Damage to the installation’s lower levels is also resolved per
the Building rules. Hits to the turret are resolved as normal turret
hits. Destruction of any of the levels results in destruction of the
turret but not of the shield generators or the missile launchers. The
shield generators and missile launchers are only destroyed when
the bottom level is destroyed.
     If an enemy infantry squad occupies the bottom level of the
installation and there is no friendly squad present on that level, the
shield generators and missile launchers may be destroyed. If the
squad spends one turn without moving or firing, the installation’s
missile launchers are destroyed. In the next turn when they do not
move or fire and still occupy the bottom floor, the installation’s
shield generators are destroyed.
TURRET INTERNAL COMPONENT DAMAGE AND
EFFECTS
     If the installation’s turret armor is penetrated, its internal
components may be damaged. Internal component damage is
recorded and resolved as normal.
Ballistic Protection
     Ballistic protection represents the inherent survivability of the
turret’s internal components, due to hardening, duplication of
circuitry, and the ruggedness of the system itself. Hits against areas
with ballistic protection have no effect on the performance of the
installation. For all purposes except widowing, treat the Ballistic
Protection boxes as Armor.
Communications System (Comm)
     The installation’s communications gear is damaged, which
prevents the commander from talking to other installation com-
manders or friendly ground units. In team play, this installation’s
player cannot talk to teammates. The installation may not engage
in indirect fire, paint targets, call for artillery fire, or receive any
benefit for firing at a painted target. (The exception is that he may
fire at a painted target that he himself has painted.)
Targeting Control Systems (Targ)
     The installation’s targeting computers, weapon control linkages,
weapon stabilization controls, and other systems have been hit. For
each box blanked out in the Targeting Control System, the
installation applies a -1 modifier to the base to-hit number for any
weapons attacks that it makes. Record this modifier in the Fire
Mods box on the record sheet.

--- PAGE 34 ---
Gunner Hit (Gunner)
     The gunner suffers damage and must make a Consciousness
Roll. The Base To-Hit Number to regain consciousness is 8. There
is a -1 modifier to this base number for each box blanked out in the
Gunner section. Use the total number of blanked-out boxes, not
just those marked off this turn. A roll greater than the modified
base number means that the gunner remains unconscious.
Remember that a I is an automatic success and a 10 is an automatic
failure. When all the boxes are blanked out, the gunner is dead. If
the installation’s gunner and commander are both unconscious, the
installation may fire no weapons for the rest of the game. The
gunner may recover consciousness as normal.
Turret Weapons Hit (Turret Wpns)
     All the weapons located in the installation’s turret are knocked
out for the rest of the game. The installation may not paint any
target for the remainder of the game.
Commander Hit (Cmdr)
     The commander suffers damage and must make a Con-
sciousness Roll as described in the Gunner Hit rule above. An
installation whose commander is dead or unconscious cannot fire
indirectly, paint targets, or call for artillery fire. If the installation’s
gunner and commander are both unconscious, the installation may
fire no weapons for the rest of the game. The commander may
recover consciousness as normal.
Turret Destroyed
     All of the installation’s major systems are rendered inoperative,
except for the shield generators and the HELL missile launchers.
INSTALLATION WEAPON ATTACKS
    During the Centurion Combat Phase, the installation com-
mander may decide to have the installation’s turret engage ground
targets or engage targets on the Interceptor mapsheet.
     Ground targets may be engaged normally, per Centurion line-
of-sight and firing arc rules. Only one ground target may be
engaged per turn.
     Attacks on targets on the Interceptor mapsheet are handled as
normal Interceptor attacks by an orbital installation, with the
ground installation being located in the battlefield hex on the
planet’s surface. The firing arc for these attacks is given above.
Turreted weapons may only attack targets in the atmosphere or the
interface.
Missile Launcher
     A defensive installation’s primary means of defending itself
against bombardment by orbital kinetic energy weapons (Thors
and large rocks) is to fire massive HELL missiles at the incoming
object. Each missile launcher can launch one HELL missile at a
target on the Interceptor map each turn. Use all the Interceptor
missile rules except where noted.
     The player may attempt to lock a HELL missile onto any
spacecraft, Thor round, or Thor satellite that is in the launcher’s
firing arc. A roll of 4 or less means that the HELL missile has
effectively acquired its target.
     Because of the massive destructive power of these missiles,
compared to the artillery-delivered variety, they cannot be used
against ground targets.
HELL Missile
     This massive weapon is essentially an artillery HELL round
except that its effective blast radius is 7.5 kilometers rather than
100 meters. The missile has an Intelligence of 8 and a Thrust of 4.
     HELL missiles are moved after all other missiles, asteroids, and
Thor javelins. When the missile enters the same hex as its target, it
explodes. All of the target’s armor facings take l00 points of
damage. minus the shield rating. For example, an Avenger has a
Front Shield Rating of 50. When a HELL round goes off in its hex,
the fighter will take 50 points of damage on the Front (100-50 =
50) and 60 points to the Left, Right, and Stern Facings (100-40=
60). If more than one ship is in the target hex, all are attacked in
the same manner.
     Any Thor javelins, missiles, or asteroids present in a hex with
an exploding HELL missile are destroyed.
     A patrol craft hit by a HELL missile lakes damage only to the
hex that was struck. The patrol craft’s other hex is not affected.
HELL missiles are not affected by any form of ECM. Safeguard
and MDC-G systems may be used against the missile, however,
and it may be targeted by normal weapon systems, per the Missile
rules. A successful hit destroys the missile without detonating it.
     HELL missiles can be carried and used like normal missiles by
fighters, installations, and two-hex ships.
HIDDEN UNITS
     Given sufficient time, a vehicle or infantry squad can be dug in
and camouflaged so that battlefield sensors cannot detect it. This is
normally accomplished through the use of special energy-
absorbing camouflage nets and by keeping the vehicle operating on
low power.
     The scenario should indicate which units, if any, may start the
game hidden. Hidden units are always in craters, with an initial
velocity of 0. They may or may not have to expend a digging
charge, depending on the scenario. Dismounted infantry that is
inside a building may also start the game hidden.
     The hidden unit’s location and facing should be marked on a
piece of paper. When the unit moves, changes facing, engages in
combat, uses Opportunity Fire, or has an enemy unit enter its hex,
the unit is placed on the map, as is the crater. Once on the map, the
unit is subject to normal attacks.
     Infantry inside a building also lose their hidden status if they
move, engage in combat, or inhabit a hex that an enemy unit
enters.
     A hidden unit declares during the Movement Phase just as any
other unit does. It is not placed on the map, however, unless it
actually moves. A hidden unit may engage in Opportunity Fire, as
normal. Remember that a unit may use Opportunity Fire only after
it has declared that it is doing so during the Movement Phase.
MINES
     Minefields can be delivered by artillery, per the Artillery rules,
or they can be set up prior to play if noted in the scenario. The
locations of mine hexes delivered by artillery are known to all
players. The location of mine hexes set up prior to the start of a
scenario are written down by the defending player and are not
revealed until an enemy unit enters the hex.
     When an enemy vehicle enters a mined hex (either at NF or
TTF mode), its bottom armor is attacked. The Base To-Hit Number
is 12, with normal modifiers for shields but not for terrain. If the
mine hits, the bottom section is automatically hit and receives
TVLG damage. The minefield remains active until it is cleared
either by an engineer vehicle, AMA or a HELL round.
     Friendly vehicles and infantry do not set off mines, and so they
may pass freely though a friendly minefield. (The mines are
equipped with 1FF receivers and so are not detonated by the
passing of a friendly vehicle).
     Any enemy dismounted infantry that enters a minefield will be
attacked. Losses are taken according to the Infantry Damage
Table.

--- PAGE 35 ---
SMOKE
     Smoke can be delivered by ballistic weapons, offboard artillery,
mortars, and vehicle smoke grenades. Smoke is opaque in the
visual, thermal, and electromagnetic spectra. As a result, smoke
significantly reduces visibility on the battlefield as well as
increasing the probability of a crash when a vehicle travels through
it too quickly.
     During the End Phase of the turn, players remove all Smoke
counters from the previous turn. Then smoke rounds and grenades
may be fired. Any artillery attack, mortar, or Gauss cannon not
used during the Weapons Fire segment of the Combat Phase may
fire a smoke round. Players should note that if other direct-
tire weapons were used in the turn, the weapon firing the smoke
round must fire at the same hex targeted by the other ballistic
weapons. Additionally, any vehicle that still has smoke grenades
may launch one of them.
     Artillery, mortar, or ballistic weapons firing smoke are subject
to all normal LOS restrictions and to-hit rolls. No terrain modifiers
apply. Any shot that misses its target hex will scatter, per the
Scattering rules. Once the shot has landed, a Smoke counter is
placed in the hex if the firing unit was a mortar or a ballistic
weapon. Artillery smoke lays a pattern that is three hexes long and
is aligned, as the player wishes, with the target hex at the center of
the screen. Multiple Smoke counters in a hex have no additional
effect.
     Smoke grenades are deployed in a different manner. They are
fired from a vehicle and fill any three adjacent hexes next to the
vehicle’s hex, as shown below.
     For movement purposes, a smoke hex halves the normal speed
limit of the terrain it covers (with fractions rounded up). This
reduction only affects grav vehicles that arc operating in NF mode
or TTF. Grav vehicles in LAF mode are unaffected. Smoke has no
effect on the speed of ground vehicles or dismounted infantry.
Smoke is treated as heavy woods for LOS and combat purposes,
giving vehicles occupying the smoke hex a -2 To-Hit Modifier and
blocking LOS through the hex. Because smoke only rises to a
height of twenty meters, a vehicle at higher elevation can fire over
it with no effect, as though it were a woods hex.
     A vehicle firing a cratering charge will immediately dissipate
any smoke in the hex.
TROOP QUALITY
     The experience and quality of a Century’s troops are just as
important as the ability of its Centurion. Even the worst political
appointee can win battles if he is leading elite Guards against
planetary militia.
     In most cases, a Century’s troops are considered to be of
Regular quality. Though seasoned enough to avoid losing battles
through lack of discipline or skill. Regular units are not yet good
enough to win battles solely by those attributes.
     A Century can be rated as Elite. Regular, or Green. Regular
units use all of the Combat rules as normal. Elite and Green
Centuries use a slightly different set of rules to reflect their
abilities.
     Whenever an Elite Century unit makes a hit, the controlling
player may shift the column hit in the Armor Diagram up or down
by 1. For example, if an Elite unit hit the left side of a tank in
Column 4, the attacking player may choose to have the hit land in
Column 3, 4, or 5.
     Conversely, when a hit is made by a unit in a Green Century,
the defending player may shift the column hit in the Armor
Diagram up or down by 1 For example, if a Green unit hit the front
of a tank in Column 7, the defending player may choose to have
the hit land in Column 6, 7, or 8.
     These shifts are only available to the organic ground forces of
the Century. Units assigned from outside of the Century for only
that battle use the shift of their own Century. Interceptors may
never use this shift. (Interceptors gain advantages through
increasing Piloting and Gunnery Skills instead.)
SKILL IMPROVEMENT
     It is assumed that actual combat will improve the skill of the
troops in a Century, but the loss of seasoned troops can also reduce
the unit’s overall effectiveness. A Century receives replacements
that are one quality grade less than that of their Century. That is,
Elites get Regular replacements, and Regulars get Green
replacements. As long as a Century has not lost a majority of its
personnel, however, these new troops are quickly assimilated and
the skill of the unit as a whole is not impaired.
     In a campaign game, players should start their Century at
Regular status and use the following rules to upgrade or degrade
the unit.
     To go from Green to Regular, the Century must destroy nine
enemy vehicles or full infantry squads (no fractions). This kill tally
can be achieved in more than one battle, but once the advancement
is made, the count starts back at 0 again for the next promotion.
     To go from Regular to Green, the Century must have lost 50
percent or more of its total personnel (equal to (3 x the number of
vehicles) + (8 x the number of infantry squads)) in one engage-
ment.
      To go from Regular to Elite, a Century must destroy 27 enemy
vehicles and full infantry squads (no fractions). This total can be
achieved in more than one battle.
     To go from Elite to Regular, a Century must have lost 30
percent or more of its total personnel in one engagement.
     In one battle, a Green Century knocks out twelve enemy
vehicles and four full infantry squads. They lost eight vehicle
crew members and twelve infantrymen, or over 60 percent of
their strength. The Century advances to Regular status
because of the number of casualties that it inflicted on the
enemy, but it is reduced back to Green because of the level of
its losses. Because the Century did advance, its count starts at 0
again when it next takes part in a battle. If the Century had
lost only twelve personnel, it would have advanced to Regular.

--- PAGE 36 ---
MORALE CHECKS
     In most cases military units do not fight to the last man or
vehicle. Combat losses might result in an infantry squad or vehicle
having its morale broken and running from the battlefield without
orders. The following rules simulate this situation.
     Whenever a vehicle takes damage to its internal structure (other
than damage to the ballistic protection), the controlling player must
make a morale check for the troops in the vehicle by rolling 1D10.
If the result is higher than the troops’ Morale Number (see Troop
Morale Table), that vehicle is forced to withdraw, If there is no
current commander, the Leadership Rating is 0. As always, a 10 is
a failure.
     Dismounted infantry start to make morale checks after the third
casualty. Withdrawing dismounted infantry may not recombine
with other squads.
TROOP MORAI.E
Troop Quality
Morale Number
Elite
9 + Commander’s Leadership Rating
Regular
6 + Commander’s Leadership Rating
Green
3 + Commander’s Leadership Rating
WITHDRAWAL
     Withdrawal begins during the Movement Phase of the next turn.
The current turn may be completed normally. Beginning the
following turn, any unit forced to withdraw must exit as quickly as
safely possible toward friendly lines. Grav vehicles will continue
to increase their velocity at Maximum Thrust to 20. The player
may take the vehicle to TTF or LAF at his discretion. A
withdrawing unit may fire only at units that attempt to paint them
in the current turn or have attacked them during the last turn. They
may not paint or spot for artillery or fire their missiles indirectly.
Withdrawing vehicles may not mount or dismount infantry.
     Withdrawing infantry may not mount vehicles.
ORBITAL FIRE SUPPORT
     In addition to planet-based fire support, a Century might be
assigned one or more orbital fire support missions. There are
effectively two types of orbital tire support, Thor satellite systems,
and naval fire support. More detailed information on these two
forms of fire support can be found in the Interceptor Integration
section.
THOR SATELLITE SYSTEM
     A Thor satellite can be deployed by specialized patrol craft or
ground launchers. Once in orbit, the satellite can receive fire
missions from ground commanders and respond by dropping
depleted-uranium javelins that accelerate via the planet’s gravity.
As the javelins fall toward the battlefield, they pick up enormous
kinetic energy. When close to the ground, they start to seek
radiation sources, aiming themselves toward them. When a javelin
hits a vehicle, it punches a hole deep enough to kill most vehicles.
Javelins do no damage to woods. nor can they be used against
dismounted infantry. A building hit by a javelin will most likely be
destroyed. Because Thor systems are so destructive, they are
targets for any Interceptors in the area and often become the center
of orbital battles. A Thor mission can normally be called for only
during a limited time in the battle, depending on the scenario.
     It takes three turns to call in a Thor fire mission. One Thor fire
mission consists of three javelins, each going for a different target.
When the mission arrives, the player can designate any three
enemy vehicles or buildings as targets. Dismounted infantry may
not be targeted by Thor javelins. A player may allocate more than
one javelin to a target if he wishes.
     Because Thor javelins are equipped with independent targeting
devices. friendly units do not need a LOS to the target at the time
of launch or when the javelins arrive.
     Once the targets are selected, the player must make a die roll of
6 or less to hit the target. Javelins that miss their target will scatter,
per the Scattering rules. p. 36.
Thor rounds that miss their target scatter as normal. but will not
attack vehicles in the hex where they scatter. Buildings in the
scatter hex are automatically hit, however.
     Because javelins are seeking radiation sources, they use the
GLAD Hit Location Table.
     The damage template for a Thor javelin is a straight vertical
column three blocks wide and 15 blocks deep.
NAVAL FIRE SUPPORT
     A ground Legion’s worst nightmare is that of devastating fire
raining down from unmolested enemy naval units. In combination
with friendly ground units, uncontested capital ships can spell
doom for enemy ground forces. Loss of local space superiority
quickly puts a planetary commander on the road to defeat.
     Orbiting capital ships can be used in a Centurion game in a
manner similar loan artillery fire mission, but with much greater
effect. The scenario should define the type of ship that is available
for support along with the turns that it can deliver any such fire. A
naval fire support mission is assigned in the same manner as an
artillery fire support mission, but availability is normally limited to
a window only a few turns long. Each class of ship can make two
types of attacks, using one armor of its laser bays or a missile
attack, if allowed by the scenario. Each type of ship to be used and
the types of attacks it can make are also specified before the start
of the game.
     Leviathan players should note that the rules below are
generalized from the more detailed fire support rules found in
Leviathan.

--- PAGE 37 ---
Laser Fire Support
     Capital ships’ main weapons are bays filled with arrays of high-
powered lasers. Each ship class is rated for the damage that its
laser bay does. Note that most ship classes have multiple numbers
listed for laser bay damage. Each listing can be used as a separate
naval fire attack. For example, a TOG Shiva battleship can make
three naval fire support attacks, two with values of 450, and one
with a value of 55.
     A Naval Fire Control Officer might be assigned to the
Centurion unit, in which case an additional medium or light grav
APC is assigned to the Century. This APC has its infantry
compartment full of the necessary communications equipment to
call down naval fire support. If this vehicle is destroyed, leaves the
playing area, has its infantry compartment damaged. its
communications section hit, or if the commander is killed or
becomes unconscious, the player no longer has the advantages
described below.
     Naval fire support is called for during the End Phase of the turn
an(l can be targeted on any hex on the playing field. It can only be
called for by the unit’s Centurion or the attached Naval Fire
Control Officer. If the Naval Fire Control Officer called for the
attack, it occurs during the Artillery Resolution segment of the
next turn’s Combat Phase. If the unit’s Centurion called for the
attack, it occurs two turns later. Any hex on the map may be
targeted; no line-of-sight is necessary.
     During the Artillery Resolution segment of the appropriate turn,
the player should roil to see if the attack hits its target. If a Naval
Fire Control Officer called down the attack, the To-Hit Number is
9. If the unit’s Centurion called down the attack, the To-Hit
Number is 6. If the attack is successful, resolve damage as
described below.
     Shots that miss their targets are subject to scattering. Use the
Scattering rules to determine where the round lands.
     Most fire support from naval units comes from bays filled with
scores of lasers. Their attack bathes the target area with coherent
light, superheating the surrounding air into a column of fire. The
net effect is similar to that of  an HELL munition, with the target
hex and adjacent hexes affected equally, but there is no gravitic
effect.
     Bay weapons automatically destroy dismounted infantry and
vehicle crews, unshielded buildings and any people inside,
minefields, trees, and unoccupied craters.
     Damage to shielded vehicles and shielded ground installations
and buildings is resolved by finding the damage factor of the laser
fire mission from the Naval Fire Support Damage Table below and
applying the damage, as per the HELL round rules, to all sides
except for the bottom armor. There is no gravitic effect from a bay-
weapon strike, and so moving vehicles do not need to ground as
they would if caught in a HELL blast.
NAVAL FIRE SUPPORT DAMAGE TABLE
Ship Class
Laser Bay
Damage
Missile
Class
Number
CW/RL
DD Exeter
90/90
C
1
DD Ajax
90/70
B
1
FG Valiant
250/190
6
1
CA Carthage
460/80
A
2
BB Repulse
300/300/29
0
E
3
TOG
DD Serpens
90/90
G
3
DDFulgur
140/10
A
2
FG Bantha
100/60
-
1
CA Syracuse
560/60
G
3
BB Shiva
450/450/55
F
3
Missile Barrages
     Ships may also fire missiles in support of ground troops or
against the location of a known target. Because of the devastating
effect on the countryside, the authority to launch a missile barrage
is normally not delegated to officers below flag or field rank. Even
if a Century has a ship with missile capability providing fire
support, that does not automatically give the player access to the
ship’s missiles. The assignment of a missile barrage is separate
from the assignment of naval fire support. Unless otherwise noted
in the scenario, a player cannot use missiles for fire support. Note
that fighters’ HELL missiles cannot be used in this manner.
     When allowed, missile attacks are called for in the same manner
as artillery and naval fire support. Each ship is rated for the type of
missile it carries and the number of salvos it can launch. A missile
barrage called by an Naval Fire Control Officer lands two turns
later during the Artillery Resolution segment, with a To-Hit
Number of 9. A missile barrage called for by a Centurion lands
three turns later during the Artillery Resolution segment, with a
To-Hit Number of 6. A missile barrage that misses follows the
normal scatter procedure (see Scattering).
     A missile barrage affects multiple hexes according In the
strength of the attack. Find the normal missile damage and
compare it to the chart below. Centurion units that are in the
impact hex and those within the Destroyed Radius are immediately
eliminated. Units within the 100-Point Radius sustain damage as
though a HELL round had detonated. Units in the Gravitic-Effect
Radius are treated as though they were one hex away from the
explosion of a standard artillery HELL round.
     The effects on trees, buildings, and craters are the same as
described in the artillery HELL round rules.
MISSILE BARRAGE DAMAGE TABLE
Missile Type
Destroyed
Radius
100-Point
Radius
Gravitic-Effect
Radius
A,B,G
3
4-6
7-8
C,D,F
6
7-8
9-10
E
12
13-18
19-24
     More detailed rules for orbital ground support can be found in
Leviathan.

--- PAGE 38 ---
OTHER RENEGADE LEGION SYSTEMS
     There are three other Renegade Legion game systems that are
compatible with Centurion. Legionnaire, the Renegade Legion
roleplaying game, can be used to personalize the soldiers that man
the grav tanks. Interceptor can be used to recreate actions
between the space fighters that vie for control of the air and space
over the battlefield. Leviathan simulates the combat between
capital ships and can be used to resolve the actions of invasion
fleets.
     Leviathan and Legionnaire have detailed rules that can be
used to integrate the systems with Centurion. Rules for integrating
Interceptor, and for operating Centurion, Interceptor, and
Leviathan together are given below.
INTERCEPTOR INTEGRATION
     Interceptor games can be used in conjunction with Centurion.
The TOG and Renegade fighters are used to provide ground
support for the ground units, to attack Thor satellites, or to provide
a first line of defense against a space-based attack.
MAP SET-UP
     Both the Centurion and Interceptor mapsheets are used when
playing with fighters. The Centurion mapsheets are set up
according to the directions in the scenario.
     The Interceptor mapsheet
should he set up as shown in
the diagram. On Map 2,
Hexrow 26xx represents the
surface of the planet. Hexrows
25xx, 24xx, 23xx, 22xx, and
21xx represent the atmosphere
of the planet, while Hexrow
20xx represents the
atmosphere/space interface.
The bottom row of Map 1 will
represent the beginning of the
planet’s gravity well. Hex
2608 on the map is normally
used as the location for the
Centurion mapsheet.
Whenever fighters end their
movement there, they may
make an attack on the
Centurion mapsheet.
TURN SEQUENCE
     When using Interceptor with Centurion, players should use
the following Sequence of Play:
Centurion Initiative Phase
As normal.
Centurion Movement Phase
As normal.
Interceptor Initiative Phase
As normal.
Interceptor Movement Phase
As normal, except at the end of all movement,
Interceptors making a ground attack are placed on the Centurion
board.
Interceptor Combat Phase
As normal, except Interceptors attacking ground targets
cannot attack targets in the atmosphere.
Centurion Combat Phase
As normal, except Interceptors attacking ground targets
execute their attacks at the start of the Resolve Weapons Fire
segment of the Combat Phase, as described below.
Centurion End Phase
As normal.
MOVEMENT
     Movement for fighters is as normal. For fighter movement
purposes, players will treat the ground hexes as atmosphere hexes.
If a fighter has lost power, is out of control, and is in a ground hex,
it is assumed that the vessel has crashed and is destroyed. If the
ejection mechanism is still functioning, the pilot escapes and
remains located in that hex.
     Fighters that end their turn in the Centurion battlefield hex may
make strafing or dive bombing attacks.
     Subject to the rules described below, a fighter making a ground
attack is treated as a grav vehicle operating at LAF. Its attack can
be resolved at the start of the Resolve Weapons Fire segment of the
Combat Phase. Damage is treated normally.
Landing Or Launching Centurion Units
     Centurion vehicles may be carried by specially modified patrol
craft. Each fighter bay may carry one vehicle whose mass is equal
to or less than the tonnage rating for the bay. Remember that the
patrol craft must have sufficient passenger space to carry the
vehicle’s crew and any attending infantry squads.
     If a patrol craft carrying ground units ends its Movement Phase
on the battlefield hex of the mapsheet, it may decide to land and
debark its cargo or have the vehicles deploy at LAF. Only grav
vehicles may deploy at LAF. Ground vehicles and infantry may
debark only from spacecraft that have landed.

--- PAGE 39 ---
If the patrol craft elects to land, it is placed on the Centurion
mapsheet anywhere that the player wishes. During the next turn’s
Centurion Movement Phase, the vehicles may leave the craft. In
the following Interceptor Movement Phase (during the next turn),
the patrol craft is placed back on the Interceptor map in the
Battlefield hex. This sequence ensures that the patrol craft is
exposed to fire from Centurion units for one Combat Phase.
     A patrol craft on the ground is treated as a normal ground target
(at NF) for all attacks by both Centurion units and Interceptor
units. Either of the patrol craft’s hexes may be targeted by ground
units. Strafing and dive bombing Interceptors may only target one
hex of the ship. All Centurion Combat rules apply to the patrol
craft except that hit location and internal damage is determined per
the Interceptor rules.
     A grounded patrol craft may fire all weapons except missiles,
NPCs, and EPCs, as normal per the Centurion rules. For firing arc
restrictions, use the Interceptor rules. All patrol craft weapons
have a maximum range of 20 hexes and damage equal 10 the
damage given at Range 1 in Interceptor.
     If the patrol craft chooses to drop the vehicles without landing,
the vehicles are placed anywhere, with any facing, on the
Centurion map. Their flight mode is at LAF and current velocity
is 75. The vehicles may not engage in combat during the turn that
they are released, but may be fired upon normally. The vehicles are
subject to all LAF rules. Remember that a vehicle is immediately
subject to speed limits if it moves from LAF to TIE.
COMBAT
     Depending on the situation, the ships represented in Inter-
ceptor can make a number of different types of attacks against the
combat vehicles found in Centurion. Rules for each type of attack
are given below.
Strafing
    When a fighter or patrol craft ends its turn on a battlefield hex,
he may announce a strafing attack, which will be resolved during
the Centurion Combat Phase. This is the only attack he may make
during the turn. After all ground forces have completed their
movement, the fighter counter is placed anywhere on the map, with
any facing.
     The fighter may be painted by any ground units, except
infantry, during the Painting segment of the Combat Phase.
Fighters may also mount a painting laser on a hard point. This
painting laser is used only when attacking ground targets and must
be used prior to the fighter beginning its strafing run.
     Before any ground-weapons fire is resolved, the fighter makes
its attacks. The craft moves straight forward in the direction it is
facing, engaging all targets within one hex away from it. This
gives the fighter a strafing corridor that is three hexes wide. The
strafing fighter must move a minimum of ten hexes in a straight
line on the map. The player may also choose to move the fighter
completely off the map edge. He does not have to inform his
opponent of how long the strafe will be, but it must beat least ten
hexes long.
     The only other limitation is that the strafing fighter must attack
all ground targets that come within range. friendly and enemy.
Every enemy and friendly ground unit within the strafing row is
attacked individually by the strafing craft’s turret- and forward-
mounted weapons. The highest damage value is used for each
weapon. Missiles, NPCs, and EPCs may not be used for strafing
attacks. However, DEM clusters may be fired at one hex along the
strafing corridor (see below).
     The Base To-Hit Number is 8, modified by the pilot’s Gunnery
Skill, the condition of the strafing craft, the target terrain
modifiers, and the target’s shields, if it is unpainted.
     A ground target is any vehicle, infantry unit, or building.
Infantry units inside buildings are protected from direct fire during
a strafing attack, but the building can be attacked. Units hidden
inside the building will suffer the consequences of that attack, per
the Building rules. Other hidden and concealed units are not
affected by a strafe.
     After the attack is over, the craft is placed back on the
battlefield hex of the Interceptor map, with a heading of either 1
or 4, at the player’s choice. The craft’s velocity is unaffected by
the attack.
     For example, an Avenger ends its movement on the
battlefield hex of the Interceptor mapsheet. The player
declares that he will make a strafing run this turn. At the end
of the Centurion Movement Phase, the fighter is placed
anywhere on the map and aligned on the map as shown. The
attacker begins moving his fighter along the map, making
attacks as he goes. The defender does not know when the strafe
will end, but it must continue for at least ten hexes. After
moving 15 hexes, the Avenger declares that it is pulling out of
the strafe. At this point, any ground units that have not yet
fired now have one last opportunity to do so. All the Avenger
lasers do 7 points of damage and all of its MDCs will do 8
points. The EPC cannot be used.
     A DFM may be fired at any single hex along the strafing
corridor. When fired, the DFM will affect the target hex and the six
adjacent hexes in the same manner as a HAFE-I artillery round.
Dive Bombing
     At the start of the scenario, players may mount various ground-
attack munitions, rather than missiles or pods, on their fighters’
hard points. For game purposes, these munitions are the same as
artillery rounds. A hard point can carry a painting laser (one per
ship). GLAD. HELL, ADM, smoke, or HAFE-l round.
When a fighter ends its turn on a battlefield hex, he may announce
a dive-bombing attack, which will be resolved during the
Centurion Combat Phase. This is the only attack he may make
during the turn. After all ground forces have completed their
movement, the fighter counter is placed anywhere on the map, with
any facing. The hex that the fighter now occupies is considered the
target hex.
     The fighter may be painted by ground units during the Painting
segment of the Combat Phase.
     Before any ground weapons fire is resolved, the fighter makes
its attack. It may drop all or part of its ground-attack munitions
onto the target hex. The player makes a separate to-hit roll for each

--- PAGE 40 ---
round. The Base To-flit Number for all munitions is 4, modified
only by the Gunnery Skill of the pilot. As Gunnery is usually 4, the
Modified Base To-Hit Number is normally 8. Ground-attack
munitions use the same scattering and damage procedures as the
artillery equivalent and cause the same type of damage. Dive-
bombing attacks do not have the one-turn delay of artillery attacks,
and the Base To-Hit Number is 8.
     At the end of the attack, the fighter is placed back on the
battlefield hex of the Interceptor map with a heading of either I or
4, at the player’s choice.
Return Fire
     A fighter or patrol craft making a ground attack is vulnerable to
fire from all ground units except dismounted infantry. A unit tiring
at a fighter may not engage any other targets for the remainder of
the Combat Phase. Internal damage from return fire takes effect at
the end of the Combat Phase.
     For LOS purposes, fighters are treated as grav units operating at
LAF. They may be engaged by any enemy weapons that are within
range. They may be painted, and lose their shield factors to all
attacks.
     The range for dive-bombing attacks is the distance from the
target hex to the firing unit. The fighter’s facing is important
because it will determine whether other ground-fire enemy units
will fire at the front, sides, or stern of the attacking fighter.
The base to-hit number against a dive-bombing craft is modified
per the Centurion rules for Shields and per the Interceptor rules
for Angle of Attack and Hit Location. The unit in the target hex is
assumed to be firing at the front of the fighter with a -l modifier to
fire.
     Return fire against Strafing craft is handled in a manner similar
to Opportunity Fire. As the fighter moves, the defending player has
an opportunity to declare fire and shoot at the fighter with any
units in range. When the attacking player declares that the strafe
has ended, the defending player may attack with any unfired units.
All painting attempts must be made prior to the fighter starting its
strafing run.
     For strafing attacks, the range is the distance between the
fighter’s current location and the firing unit. The current location
of the fighter determines if the ground fire attacks the front, sides,
or stern of the fighter.
     The base to-hit number against a strafing craft is modified per
the Centurion rules for Shields and per the Interceptor rules per
Angle of Attack. Hit Location is determined according to the
Interceptor rules.
     A player whose vehicle is well within the minimum strafe
corridor would gain an advantage by holding his fire until the
strafing craft has passed over him, allowing him to fire at the rear
of the craft with an Angle of Attack Modifier of 0.
Interceptors that take a hit to the anti-grav drive or atmospheric
controls from ground fire are considered to be destroyed.
Attacks at LAF
     In any scenario integrating Interceptor and Centurion, fighters
on the Interceptor board may attack tanks dropping from orbit or at
LAF, Interceptors may fire any normal weapon or ship-to-ship
missile at a dropping or LAF tank, Use the appropriate following
table to resolve such an attack,
HIT LOCATIONS WHILE DROPPING
Die Roll
Hit Location
1-3
Bottom
4-7
Attacked Side (right, left, front,
stern)
8-10
Turret
HIT LOCATIONS AT LAF
Die Roll
Hit Location
1-5
Turret
6-10
Attacked Side (right, left, front,
stern)
     A grav vehicle at LAF may only fire at a fighter on the
Interceptor board if that fighter is in the same Interceptor hex as
the tank. Under this condition, the grav vehicle may paint the
enemy unit and fire on it with all of its weapons (subject to the five
weapons per gunner rule). The Base ‘To-Hit Number for all grav
vehicle weapons is 7.
Stand-Off Attacks
     Rather than entering the Centurion hex to attack units at TTF
or NF, Interceptors can remain in atmosphere and fire SSS missiles
at painted enemy targets. This requires that the target be painted in
the turn that the missile is fired, as well as during the turn that the
missile enters the Centurion hex, If the target is not painted when
the missile enters the board, the missile does not hit.
     If the missile is fired normally, it travels as normal until it
moves into the Centurion hex, If its original target has been
painted this turn, then the missile will make its attack during the
Offboard Artillery resolution segment of the Combat Phase.
Damage location is resolved like a GLAD round against the top of
the target, using the GLAD Hit Location Table, p. 37, and the SSS
damage profile. The missile maybe intercepted by a Vulcan system
per the normal missile attack rules.
     DFM and TGM missiles may not be used in this manner.
ATTACKING FIGHTERS FROM THE CENTURION
BOARD
     Defense installations and specialized air defense grav vehicles
may engage fighters and other craft that are not directly attacking
the Centurion board. Use the Interceptor rules to resolve all such
attacks. Unless otherwise specified by the scenario, use Gunnery
Skill 4 for the installation and air defense vehicle gunners.
     During the Interceptor Combat Phase of the sum, a defense
installation or grav vehicle mounting an air defense system can
launch HELL or SSS missiles at any fighter in its firing arc (see
Installations) per the Interceptor missile rules. A Lock-On Roll
of 4 or less is needed to successfully launch each missile
attempted, and a maximum of five missile launches per turn can be
attempted by each installation or air defense vehicle.
     If the missile launch is successful, a counter is placed on the
Centurion hex of the Interceptor mapsheet. During the next turn
the missile will accelerate normally and attempt to engage its target
per the Interceptor rules. The missile’s acceleration rating has a -1
modifier until the missile climbs out of the planet’s gravity well.

--- PAGE 41 ---
Lasers may also be used to attack fighters from the Centurion
mapsheet, but can only engage targets in the atmosphere or the
atmospheric interface. Lasers are fired during the Interceptor
Combat Phase. Combat is resolved as for the normal Interceptor
rules, including range and damage attenuation for the class of laser
used. Ballistic weapons, including TVLG and SMLM, cannot
engage targets on the Interceptor map.
     Air defense vehicles that engage fighters cannot fire at targets
on the Centurion mapsheet. If a defensive installation fires its
turret-mounted lasers at targets on the Interceptor mapsheet, it
cannot fire any turreted weapons at targets on the Centurion
mapsheet.
THOR SATELLITES
     Rather than arbitrarily assuming that one side or the other has
an operable Thor satellite system, the players may decide to place
the satellite on the Interceptor mapsheet, making it vulnerable to
attacks by both Interceptors and ground-based systems.
Thor Record Sheet
     A Thor Record Sheet is provided below. Damage against the
Thor system is resolved as normal fighter damage. Effects from
internal damage are described below.
Computer
     Transponder: Per Interceptor rules.
     Long Range Sensors: -1 To-Hit Modifier for all Thor attacks.
     Scanner Systems: -1 To-Hit Modifier for all Thor attacks.
     Main Weapons Control: Per Interceptor rules.
     Auxiliary Weapons Controls: Per Interceptor rules.
     Comm System: No Thor missions may be launched in the next
turn.
Weapon Systems
     Target Locking Circuits: -1 To-Hit Modifier for all Thor
attacks.
     Target Tracking Circuits: -1 To-Hit Modifier for all Thor
attacks.
     Range-Finder Circuits: -1 To-Hit Modifier for all Thor
attacks.
     Weapon Short: Per Interceptor rules.
     Massive Weapon Short: Per Interceptor rules.
     Weapon Destroyed: Per Interceptor rules.
     Fire Computer: -1 To-Hit Modifier for all Thor attacks.
Orbital Controls
     OC Short: The orbital controls short out and are inoperative for
one turn. Satellite moves one hex closer to the planet.
     OC 1/4, 1/2, 3/4: Orbital control hit. No effect until OC
destroyed.
     OC Destroyed: Satellite orbital controls are no longer func-
tional. Satellite moves one hex closer to the planet each turn.
Engineering
     Plant Hit 1/4, 1/2,3/4 Down: Power plant hit. No effect until
plant destroyed.
     Plant Destroyed: Satellite destroyed as plant explodes.
     Power Coupling Hit: Same effect as OC Short.
     Shield Short: Per Interceptor rules.
     Shield Destroyed: Per Interceptor rules.
     Shield Power Converter: Per Interceptor rules.
Superstructure
     Per Interceptor rules.
Satellite Movement
     The Thor satellite system operates in low orbit over the planet.
It is normally deployed to enter the Interceptor map at Map 2 Hex
1901 with a heading of 4 and a velocity of 2, moving right to left
across the map. This places it just above the atmosphere interface.
The controlling player may now place it anywhere on the xx01
column of Map 2 at any velocity of his choice. The heading is still
4.
     Unless the satellite takes damage, the heading and velocity
never change.
     The satellite moves after all fighters have completed their
movement, but before the missiles are moved. If its orbital controls
and power plant are operational, the pull of the planet’s gravity
will not affect it.
     If the orbital controls or power plant are temporarily shorted
out, the satellite will fall one hexrow down toward the planet, yet
maintain its heading and velocity of 4 and 2. Thus, if the satellite is
on Hex 1803 when its orbital controls short, it will move so Hex
1903 rather than to 1804 in the next turn.
     If either the orbital controls or power plant is destroyed, the
satellite will be affected by gravity as normal, falling toward the
planet until it strikes the atmospheric interface and is destroyed.
Thor Combat
     The Thor satellite is considered to be a normal fighter target for
combat purposes. The bow of the satellite is always pointed toward
its heading. Damage is calculated normally, and the effects of
internal damage are taken as above. Destroyed and shorted
weapons results will always be applied to non-depleted javelin
hard points or to the ECM pod.
     The Thor satellite has ten hard points. Nine of them mount a
cluster of three Thor javelins (one fire mission’s worth), and the
tenth contains an ECM pod. One javelin cluster per turn may be
launched. Once all nine clusters have been launched, the satellite
may no longer be used for Thor fire missions.
     Thor clusters are launched during the Missile Fire Phase of the
turn. They may only be launched against ground targets. No lock-
on roll is needed, but the satellite must be inside the firing arc, as
described below.
     Once a Thor cluster is launched. it is placed on the map one
hexrow below the satellite. Its velocity is 1. In the second turn, its
velocity is 2 and it must move two hexes toward the battlefield
hex, staying within the firing arc. On Turn 3, it must move three
hexes: on Turn 4, four hexes, and so on. Like a missile, the Thor
cluster must travel the shortest distance possible to its target. The
Thor cluster attack on ground targets is resolved on the turn that it
enters the battlefield hex. (Note that the lag time for receiving the
Thor attack on the ground is based on which row is the satellite’s
starting point. The basic game assumes that the satellite is set up
on the l9xx row, causing the Thor cluster to strike the ground three
turns after launch.)
     The Thor cluster attack is resolved normally, but damage to the
satellite’s targeting or sensor equipment at the time of launch will
reduce the to-hit number for each separate javelin. Thus, if target-
locking circuits were out at the time of launch, each javelin would
need a 5 to hit its target rather than a 6.

--- PAGE 42 ---
INTEGRATING INTERCEPTOR,
LEVIATHAN, AND CENTURION
     It is possible to integrate all three Renegade Legion board
games into one massive game. It is not simple, however, because
an Interceptor hex is one-fifth the width of a Leviathan hex and
75 times the width of a Centurion hex. Roughly speaking, 25
Interceptor hexes represent one Leviathan hex, and two
Centurion maps represent one Interceptor hex. In addition,
Leviathan turns last five minutes, while Interceptor and
Centurion turns last just one minute.
RULES
     In general, all movement and combat is conducted and resolved
according to the rules printed in the Interceptor, Centurion, and
Leviathan rulebooks. Any exceptions are noted in this section.
TURN SEQUENCE
The turn sequence for integrated
Leviathan/Interceptor/Centurion scenarios is as follows:
A. Leviathan Initiative Phase
B. Leviathan Movement Phase
C. Spotting Phase
D. Five full Centurion/Interceptor game turns
     1. Centurion Initiative Phase
     2. Centurion Movement Phase
     3. Interceptor Initiative Phase
     4. Interceptor Movement Phase
     5. Interceptor Combat Phase
     6. Centurion Combat Phase
     7. Centurion End Phase
E. Leviathan Launch and Recovery Phase
F. Leviathan Combat Phase
BOARDS
     The accompanying diagrams show how the three boards
overlap. As usual on the Leviathan board, Hex Row 01xx is the
ground, Hex Row 02xx is the atmosphere, and Hex Row 03xx is
the atmospheric interface.
     The Interceptor board overlaps the bottom center of the
Leviathan board, between Leviathan Hexes 0612 (Map 1) and
0603 (Map 2) and below. As usual on the Interceptor board, Hex
Row 0lxx is the ground, Hex Rows 02xx-06xx are the atmosphere,
and Hex Row 07xx is the atmospheric interface.
     On both the Leviathan and Interceptor boards, the Centurion
board is Hex 0114.
LAUNCHING FIGHTERS
     All Interceptors begin the scenario aboard their respective
capital ships. In order to deploy Interceptors, a player must launch
a squadron- (or larger) size unit of Interceptors from one of his
capital ships in the Leviathan Launch and Recovery Phase.
     To launch fighters, the appropriate Leviathan fighter counter is
placed in any hex the capital ship currently occupies. A capital ship
may launch any or all of its fighters in one turn. No fighter counter
being launched may move or attack until the next turn, but it may
be attacked.
     The next turn, the fighter moves in the Leviathan Movement
Phase.
MOVING BETWEEN LEVIATHAN AND INTERCEPTOR
BOARDS
     If a fighter counter ends its Leviathan movement in one of the
hexes corresponding to the Interceptor board, the fighters it
represents may move to the Interceptor board and begin acting
during Interceptor phases. For example, a fighter counter that
ends the Leviathan Movement Phase in Hex 0603 on Leviathan
Map 2 may announce it is moving to any of Hexes 2212 - 2214,
2311 - 2314, 2412 - 2414, 251l - 2514, or 2612 - 26l4 on Intercep-
tor Map 2.
     One Interceptor counter may be placed on the Interceptor
board for every six fighters in the Leviathan unit. (The Intercep-
tor board represents just a slice of the three-dimensional action.
The other fighters are engaged elsewhere in the area.) For example,
a squadron of six Gladius fighters enters the Interceptor hexes.
One Gladius Interceptor counter is placed on one of the
corresponding hexes on the Interceptor board. If the unit has more
than one type of fighter, randomly select which fighter(s) appears.
     If a damaged squadron moves from the Leviathan board to the
Interceptor board, roll 1D10. On a 1 - 5, a fighter appears on the
Interceptor board. On a 6 - 10, all surviving fighters in that
squadron are engaged elsewhere.
     If a damaged flight or group moves from the Leviathan board to
the Interceptor board, divide its remaining Armor boxes by 6 and
round up. That number of fighters appears on the Interceptor
board.
     Keep track of which fighters are from which Leviathan unit. If
a fighter leaves the Interceptor board without returning to the
Leviathan board, or if it is destroyed, mark off 6 Armor boxes on
its Leviathan record sheet. If a fighter is able to return to the
Leviathan board, even if it is badly damaged, its Leviathan record
sheet is unchanged.
     Only fighters may move between the Leviathan and Inter-
ceptor boards. Units on one of these boards may not fire at units
on the other board. (However, units on either board may interact
with units on the Centurion board, as per the integration rules in
the Leviathan and Centurion rulebooks.) Movement from the
Leviathan board to the Interceptor board is announced at the end
of the Leviathan Movement Phase. Movement from the
Interceptor board to the Leviathan board is announced at the end
of the Interceptor Movement Phase.
FIGHTER GROUND MISSIONS
     Leviathan fighter units may be designated as ground-support
missions. In this case, the entire unit’s Missile Attack Factor
becomes 0, its hard points being loaded with ground-attack
munitions. Fighter units wishing to engage in ground attacks must
move from the Leviathan board to the Interceptor board as
described above, and then to the hex representing the Centurion
board. If a player intends to allocate a unit of fighters to ground
support, he must decide what type of ground-attack ordnance the
unit is carrying before play begins. No more than 10 percent of the
total ground-attack ordnance carried by fighters can be of the
HELL variety.

--- PAGE 43 ---
SCENARIO DESIGN
     Designing balanced scenarios is a difficult task. Giving both
sides the same numbers and types of vehicle is one way to ensure
that a game is fair for both players, but it does take away some of
the flavor of the game. Players may design their own scenarios
using the following method.
SCENARIO POINTS
     First, the players choose who will play TOG and who will play
the Commonwealth/Renegade side. Then they lay out the
mapsheets in a manner agreeable to both. One of the maps (or a
prominent geographical point such as a city or hilltop) should be
declared the objective. Players then decide upon the length of the
game, the criteria for taking the objective, and on which side of the
map each force will begin. If desired, one player may set up his
forces on the map, while the other player enters from a particular
direction off the map.
     Both sides should start with the same number of Scenario
Points (150 t0 300 points per side is suggested). The players spend
Scenario Points to build their forces.
     The Scenario Point Values for various units are given below.
SCENARIO POINTS  TABLE
Unit
Scenario Point Cost
Vehicles
Cost/1 00,000 (fractions
rounded up)
Bounce Infantry Squad
2
Offboard Artillery
30/Fire Mission
Thor Mission (per turn available)
10
Naval Fire Support
Damage Factor/Fire
Mission/Turn
Setting Up On Objective
75
Hidden Minefields*
10
Craters Starting on Map*
5
Defensive Installations (any
type)*
100
Fighters
2 x (Cost/l00.000)
*Only one player
     Only one player may start with his forces on the map. A player
does not have to spend all of his Scenario Points.
     When the game is over, the players add up their Victory Points,
as follows:
Achieving the Objective
75
Each Enemy Vehicle Destroyed Scenario Point Value
Unspent Scenario Points
1/Unspent Point
     A vehicle is counted as destroyed only if it suffers an
ammunition explosion or if a hit is recorded in the Vehicle
Destroyed box in its Internal Systems Diagram. A dismounted
infantry squad is destroyed if it suffers five or more casualties.
VICTORY LEVELS
     Victory Levels are determined by dividing the highest score by
the lowest score, and consulting the Victory Table.
VICTORY TABLE
Ratio
High-Scoring
Player
Low-Scoring
Player
3 +
Decisive Victory
Decisive Defeat
2 - 2.99
Substantial Victory
Substantial Defeat
1.5 - 1.99
Marginal Victory
Marginal Defeat
1.49 or less
Draw
Draw

--- PAGE 44 ---
VEHICLE CONSTRUCTION
     The grav vehicles described in this game are the most common
ground combat vehicles used by the TOG and Commonwealth
Legions. Future recognition manuals and data supplements will
describe other models. Players wishing to design their own
vehicles can use the following construction rules.
DESIGNING A COMBAT VEHICLE
     Designing a combat vehicle can be a complicated procedure.
Because the vehicle’s overall performance is based on mass,
changes in one component may require modifications in other
areas to ensure optimal combat effectiveness.
     To design a vehicle, the player will need a construction
worksheet, various component tables, an unused Vehicle Record
Sheet, and a pencil. Use the following steps:
1. Choose Power Ratings
2. Choose Shields
3. Choose Armor
4. Choose Weapons
5. Add Crew, Targeting, and Infantry Components
6. Add Digging Cannons
7. Add Grav Drive
8. Calculate Thrust
9. Fill Out Vehicle Record Sheet
     After choosing the power rating. the player should keep track of
the power usage, mass, and costs of the various components that he
adds to the vehicle. The worksheet provides spaces for noting these
values. A grav vehicle can have an infinite mass, but the total
power usage of all components cannot exceed the vehicle’s power
rating. A ground vehicle cannot have a mass greater than 100.
Excess power is used to give thrust to the vehicle, based on the
vehicle’s total mass. The heavier the vehicle, the more power
needed to move it.
CHOOSE POWER RATINGS
     Grav vehicles use engines that have a Power Rating of 2,500 or
less. The total power usage of a vehicle’s systems cannot exceed
the vehicle’s power rating. Record the vehicle’s power rating in the
appropriate box of the worksheet, along with the mass and cost of
the engine. Note that only one engine per vehicle is allowed.
Power is used to charge and fire weapons, operate the shields, and
to run other vehicle systems. Whatever power is not allocated to
these systems is used to generate thrust.
     Ground vehicles use engines that weigh five times as much as a
grav vehicle’s but cost only 10 percent of list value.
     The player wishes to design his own medium grav tank. He
decides that he wants a grav vehicle that is fairly well protected
and heavily armed, and is willing to sacrifice some of the vehicle’s
thrust for it.
     The player decides that the grav vehicle will have a 1,500-
rated power plant. That engine has a mass of 28 and costs
375,000 talents. These numbers are written down in the Engine
section of the construction worksheet.
CHOOSE SHIELDS
     Grav vehicles have shields mounted in their front, right, left.
and stern sides. A separate shield is needed for each side. The
mass, power usage, and cost for various types of shields are listed
in the Shield Table. Record these values in the appropriate sections
of the worksheet. Ground vehicles cannot mount shields.
     The player must now allocate shields to protect five
different locations on the vehicle. He decides that he wants
strong shields to the front and rear, while the other three
shields can be weaker. He chooses a Flicker Rate of 70 for the
front and stem and a Flicker Rate of 50 for the left and right
sides. Because he does not intend for the vehicle to fly above
the treetops in combat, he assigns a Flicker Rate of only 10 to
the bottom shields. The player now notes the appropriate
power, mass, and cost for each of the shield generators on the
worksheet. The subtotal for shield power is 121, the mass
subtotal is 10, and the cost for all five shields is 125,000 talents.
CHOOSE ARMOR
     A vehicle can receive additional protection by mounting armor
plating on all four sides of the vehicle and on its turret. Ten points
of armor weigh one ton and cost 50 talents. A vehicle may carry a
maximum of 100 Armor Points per section. Record the values and
weight of armor in the appropriate sections of the worksheet.
     The player now allocates armor to the six sections of the
vehicle. He gives 90 points of armor to the front and to the
turret, 60 points to the sides, and 70 points to the stem. The
bottom is given 40 points, just in case he has to ground quickly.
Total mass for the armor is 41, and it costs 2,050 talents.
CHOOSE AND ALLOCATE WEAPONS
     Next, the vehicle’s armament is chosen. A vehicle can mount
fixed weapons in Hull 1 or 2, or it can mount weapons in the turret.
A total of eight weapons systems may be mounted in a vehicle.
The player can allocate weapons to the three locations in any
manner that he desires, as long as he does not exceed the limit of
eight.

--- PAGE 45 ---
Any Vulcan Point Defense System must be mounted in the
turret.
     Engineering attachments take up a weapons location in Hull 1
and Hull 2.
     A maximum of two ballistic weapons (any combination of
MDC or Gauss) can be mounted on a vehicle. The total millimeter
rating of the Gauss cannons mounted cannot exceed 300.
     Hardpoints may be used only to mount Interceptor-class SSS or
HELL missiles. If hardpoints are used, an air defense system must
be mounted.
     The Weapons Tables give the mass, power usage, and cost of
the various available weapons systems.
     Note that there are two SMLM and four TVLG missile systems
available. The number in parenthesis indicates how many missiles
come with the system. No matter how many missiles it has, a
missile system takes up only one weapons location.
     The player wants his vehicle to mount the largest ballistic
weapon available, along with reasonable secondary armament.
He mounts a 200mm Gauss cannon in the turret. The player
may want to add another MDC or Gauss cannon, but the
second Gauss cannon could not be larger than 100mm. Instead,
the player elects to mount two 1.5/3 lasers, two SMLM (2)
missile packs, and two TVLG (4) packs as secondary
armament. These weapons are evenly divided between the Hull
1 and Hull 2 locations. Finally, he mounts a Vulcan-3 anti-
missile system. Though he wants to keep the turret s mass
down, he must mount the Vulcan there. The subtotals for the
weapons are 31 for power, 152 for mass, and a cost of 774,000
talents. The Gauss cannon is a very efficient weapon, but it is
also very expensive.
CALCULATE TURRET TONNAGE AND
POWER USAGE
     Weapons that are mounted in turrets have additional tonnage
and power costs. The turret’s mass is equal to 5 percent of the total
tonnage of the turreted weapons (fractions are rounded up.) Each
turret uses 1 Power Point. Turrets weigh a minimum of one ton,
even if they mount no weapons. (It is assumed that the painting
laser and other devices that require 360-degree fields of fire are
mounted in the turret.)
    The weapons in the turret also increase the mass and power
usage of that component. Extra weight for the turret is 5
percent of the combined mass of the two weapons mounted
there, or in this case, 6 tons (.05 x 118 = 5.8), The cost is 6,000
talents.
ADD CREW, TARGETING, AND INFANTRY
COMPONENTS
     Each vehicle has a crew compartment that weighs one ton and
utilizes 1 Power Point.
     Each vehicle has targeting, sensing, and communication
systems that weigh two tons and utilize 2 Power Points.
     Any vehicle may he designed to carry infantry. To mount a
squad of infantry, a vehicle must allocate eight tons and 8 Power
Points.
     The total cost of adding crew, targeting, and infantry is equal to
100 times the mass of each component.
     All vehicles have standard costs for their crew
compartments, painting lasers, and smoke projectors. Because
the vehicle will not carry any infantry, the player needs to pay
only these standard costs, The subtotals for these components
are 3 power, 3 mass, and 300 talents.
ADD DIGGING CANNONS
     All vehicles described in this game may mount digging
cannons, but the system is optional. A digging cannon weighs 10
percent of the vehicle’s current mass (the total weight of the
engine, shields, armor, weapons, and turret). The cannon requires
power equal to 5 percent of the vehicle’s current tonnage. The cost
of a digging cannon is equal to 100 times its mass.
     At this point, the player calculates a subtotal for all the
vehicle’s components thus far, He will use this total mass and
power usage to calculate the size and power of the digging
cannons and the grav drive. The totals now stand at 156 power,
240 mass, and a cost of 1,282,350 talents.
     Digging cannons have a power usage of 12 (.05 x 240, rounded
up) and a mass of 24 (.10 x 240), They cost 2,400 talents.
ADD GRAV DRIVE
In order to move, the grav vehicle must be equipped with a grav
unit. A grav unit weighs 1 percent of the total mass of the currently
mounted components and has a power usage equal to the vehicle’s
current mass (fractions rounded up, and not including the digging
cannons). A grav unit costs 500 times the power usage.
     A vehicle with a grav drive uses the Grav Movement rules. All
other vehicles are ground vehicles and use the Ground Movement
rules.
     The grav drive has a power usage of 240 and a mass of 3
(.01 x 240, rounded up). It costs 120,000 talents.
CALCULATE THRUST
     The thrust (or Movement Points for ground vehicles) available
to a vehicle is equal to the remaining power divided by the total
mass of all systems ((Power Rating-Total Power Usage of All
Systems) / Total Tonnage of All Systems). For fractions of .5 or
more, round up. For fractions of less than .5, round down.
     Ground vehicles cannot have more than 8 MP.
     The vehicle now has a total power usage of 408 and a mass
of 267. This leaves it with 1,092 in excess power (1500-408).
Dividing this by the mass gives the vehicle a Thrust of 4.08, or
4 when rounding down for a fraction less than .5. Total cost is
1,404,750 talents.
FILL OUT VEHICLE RECORD SHEET
The final step in vehicle construction is to fill out a record sheet for
the newly designed vehicle. The procedure is the same as that
described in Fill Out Record Sheets

--- PAGE 46 ---
LASERS
Type
Max Damage
Range
Power
Mass
Cost
1.5/1
2
20
2
2
24,000
1.5/3
4
20
5
5
60,000
1.5/4
5
20
7
7
84,000
1.5/5
6
20
8
8
96,000
1.5/6
7
20
10
10
120,000
3/6
8
20
15
15
180,000
5/6
9
20
19
19
228,000
7.5/6
10
20
23
23
276,000
OTHER WEAPONS
Types
Max Damage
Range
Power
Mass
Cost
MDC
MDC 8
T
20
6
24
168,000
MDC 10
T
20
11
42
250,000
MDC 12
T
20
12
46
300,000
Gauss Weapons
200 mm
9
10
6 528,000
  HEAP
T
15
  APDS
T
15
150 mm
5
66
330,000
  HEAP
T
15
  APDS
T
15
100mm
4
47
234,000
  HEAP
T
10
  APDS
T
10
  H.H.
T
10
50mm
3
43
216,000
  HEAP
T
6
  APDS
T
6
  H.H.
T
6
25mm
1
14
67,500
  HEAP
T
6
  APDS
T
6
  H.H.
T
6
Other Systems
SMLM (l)
T
10
0
3
10,000
SMLM (2)
T
10
0
6
20,000
TVLG (2)
T
6
0
3
10,000
TVLG (4)
T
6
0
6
20,000
TVLG (6)
T
6
0
9
30,000
TVLG (12)
T
6
0
18
60,000
Vulcan-l
S
0
5
5
20,000
Vulcan-2
S
0
8
8
30,000
Vulcan -3
S
0
12
12
46,000
Vulcan -4
S
0
15
15
60,000
AP Laser
S
3
5
5
60,000
IWF 9
T
3
NA
NA
IWF 7
T
3
NA
NA
IWF 3
T
3
NA
NA
IWF 1
T
3
NA
NA
Engineer
Attachment*
S
NA
30
30
150,000
GPA/E**
S
500”’
18
112
1,056,000
* See Combat Engineer Vehicles
** See Artillery rules
SHIELD TABLE
Flicker Rate
Power
Mass
Cost
Flicker Rate
Power
Mass
Cost
10
1
2
5,000
80
96
2
40,000
20
2
2
10,000
90
182
2
45,000
30
4
2
15,000
100
264
2
50,000
40
6
2
20,000
110
528
2
55,000
50
12
2
25,000
120
1056
2
60,000
60
24
2
30,000
130
2112
2
65,000
70
48
2
35,000
140
4228
2
70,000

--- PAGE 47 ---
ENGINE TABLE
Rating
Mass
Cost
Rating
Mass
Cost
50
1
25,000
1300
20
650,000
100
1
50,000
1350
22
675,000
150
1
75,000
1400
24
700,000
200
1
100,000
1450
26
725,000
250
1
125,000
1500
28
750,000
300
1
150,000
1550
30
775,000
350
1
175,000
1600
32
800,000
400
1
200,000
1650
34
825,000
450
1
225,000
1700
36
850,000
500
2
250,000
1750
38
875,000
550
3
275,000
1800
40
900,000
600
4
300,000
1850
42
925,000
650
5
325,000
1900
44
950,000
700
6
350,000
1950
46
975,000
750
7
375,000
2000
48
1,000,000
800
8
400,000
2050
50
1,025,000
850
9
425,000
2100
52
1,050,000
900
10
450,000
2150
54
1,075,000
950
11
475,000
2200
56
1,100,000
1000
12
500,000
2250
58
1,125,000
1050
13
525,000
2300
60
1,150,000
1100
14
550,000
2350
62
1,175,000
1150
15
575,000
2400
64
1,200,000
1200
16
600,000
24S0
66
1,225,000
1250
18
625,000
2500
68
1,500,000