--- PAGE 1 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
TABLE
 OF
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
T'ask Force Adjustment Phase
Supply Phase
32
PLANETARYGAME
Tempo Phase
17
Supply Points
32
Components
Capturing a Basc
17
Rearming Fatigucd Task Forces
33
Planelary Map
Non-Grav Forces
Reorganizing Disrupted Unils
33
Rccord Shetts
Fngineer Cenluries
18
Rehuiding Deslroyed Unils
Coumters
SPACE GAME
19
Tempo Phase
34
Die
Components
Orbital and Ground Bases
34
Game Set-up
Systen Map
19
Capturing Bases
34
Playing the Gane
Rccot'd Sheels
20
Transporling Marine Cohorts
34
Sequencc of Play
Counters
20
Attacking a Base
34
Movcment Phase
Game Set-up
22
Establishing New Orbital Bases
35
Combal Mode
Playing the Gaine
22
Transporting Bases
35
Low-Alliturlc Flight Modc
Sctjuence of Play
Transport Squadrons as Basen
35
Terrain Effetts on Movercn!
Mission Assignmenls
CAMPAIGN GAME
36
Curvature Elferts mn Movement
Attack
23
Conponents
36
Stacking
10
iS Attack
23
Planctary Map
36
Zones of Contrul
10
Recon
23
New Units and Capabilitics
36
Defenler Counteracticns
Serlo Detenst
23
Grount Bases
36
Overrunniig Disrupted Linits
Supply
24
Game Set-up
37
Deteclion
12
Withe real wel
24
(ainpaign Sequence of Play
37
Sighai Unit.
12
Ground Support
24
Scquencc of Play
37
(ombat Phase
13
Orhitul Drop
Ground Support Missions
38
Atlrk Protriurt
13
Woveucnt Phast
24
Supporting Tusk Forte tComhat
Saving Rolls
ighter Fligh Transporaition
I ndependenl Allacks
39
Artillcry
T-space Movenicnl
24
Supply
39
Retreuts
15
Insysttm Movenient
Disrupted Bases
Fatigue
Shacking
26
Transporting Troops
39
Destroying I>isruplet Units
15
Spact Comhat Phase
Basc Limitaltons
40
Supply Phase
N-spuct Detcetin
Orbiial Drops
40
Supply Points
Deer Spice Inlerception
27
Dropping Troops
40
Rearming Fatigued Task Farces
16
Cumbat Resoluticn
Dropping Supplies
40
Rcorganizing Disrupled Units
17
Alission Resnfulim
29
Building Ground Biases
40
Rehuilding Dcsiroyed linits
17
Futigue
Withdraat Phase
Opposing Sector Defenses
32
Tusk Force Adjustment Phase
32

--- PAGE 2 [OCR] ---
RULES
PREFECT
41
RENEGADE LEGION INTEGRATION
41
Design
Space Battles Using Leviathan
41
Sain Lewis
Prcfect lu Leviaithan Lnit Conversion
41
Karl Heisterman
Leviuthat Stals for Oiher Prcfect Forces
42
Map Set-up
43
Development
Leviathan lo Prefect Conversion
43
Sam Lewis
Planetary Combat Using Cenlurion
43
David Ladyman
Prefecl to Centurion Unit Conversion
Map Set-up
45
46
Playtesters
Forre Set-up
46
Dallen Masters
Cenlurion to Prefeet Conversion
47
Combal Simulations Group.
Scerlario Design
47
Royal Military College of Canada
System Map Set-up
47
Planet Map Set-up
47
Fditorial Staff
Military Forces and Bascs
Senior Editoy
Donma Ipolito
Assistanr Editor
Sharon Turner Mulvihil)
Production Staff
Art Dirttor
Cofor Ma.
Jeff Laubenslein
Joel Biske
Prjer Diretfo
Dana Knutson
Mike Nielsen
Counfers
Corer Art
Mike Nielsen
Steve Venters
fHustratio
Bu Desigh
Mike Jackson
Mike Nicisen
Allen Nunis
Book Design
Earl Geier
Mike Nielsen
Layout
Tara Gallagher
Ihterinr Maps and Diagr'am?
Mikc Nielsen
Keyfine and Pasteup
CENTURION, LEVIATHAN, INTERCEPTOR and
Mike Nielsen
RENEGADE LEGION are Registered Trademarks of
FASA Corporation. TOG, LEGIONNAIRE and
PREFECT are lrademarks of FASA Coporalion.
Copyright @ 1992 FASA Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.
Printed in thc Uniled States of America
Published by
FASA Cuxratiun + P.O. Box 6930 - Chicago. IL 60680

--- PAGE 3 [OCR] ---
PREFE
INTRODUCTION
Prefect is a game designed for two players, set in the
Throughout the conbat, transports attempt to bring their
The rules for playing Prefect are divided into three sections;
Renegade Legion univcrse. that simulates operational-level
powerful cargo of grav troops to the surface of the contested
the Planetary Game, the Space Game, and the Campaign
combat of the early 69th century. The combat in Prefect focuses
worid. Freighters and troopships disembark forces under enemy
Game. The planetary game focuses on ground operations. The
on the batle for the plarnet Ku Crassus, waged between the Terran
fire. Defending starships and fighters try desperately fo destroy
space game covers intra-system space combat, and the campaign
Overlord Governmenl and the Commonwcalth-Renegade Le-
thc invading forces in space, for they know that once the enemy
game gives rules for fully intcgrating the planetary and space
gion allies.
grav tanks reach the surface, the fatc of the systein rests in the
garnces. Also included in Prefect are three scenarios and scenario
In Prefect, invading fleets play a subtle gane of cat and
hands of the defenders helow.
design rules, as well as rules for integrating Prefect with Inter-
mouse, using feint and counterfeint to draw off reinforcements
Hundreds of tanks and thousands of soldiers come to grips
ceptor, Leviathan, and Centurion.
from their targets. Once engaged, the fleets battle for insystem
wih the enemy as the Legiotis battle back and forth ucross entire
Prefecl also includes Organizational Briefing., a back-
assets, attempting to capture what they can tse, and destroy what
continenis. Minor skimishes rapidly tum into major actions, as
ground book that describes the TOG and Commonwealth/Rerl-
they cannot. These space battles are often very costly. Sometimes
eneiny units break defending lines and rush forward to hit
cgade Legion military organizations. This second book also
both forces are completely destroyed under a hail of missile and
important rear-line units. From the moment the colossal starships
provides Operational Tactics, inforrnation about the effect of
laser fire.
enter a planct's orbit, to the last stand of the planctary garrison,
[echnology on war, and the basic strategy of a campaign.
Prefect covers the uction.
Nuws.92

--- PAGE 4 [OCR] ---
PLANETARY
GAME
Planetary Terrain Fealures
[n the planetary gamc. playcrs dcal only with gruumd actims
PIANETARY MAP
that lake placc on the inajr habitablc planet of the A fricannus stat
Thc planelary mlap represents the surfiee ul a world, which
sysicm, Ku Crassus. All rules in thc planelary gatne also apply to
in Prefert is Ku Crassus. 'lhc curved surface ol tht planet is
Clear tertain is the same as open terrain, which
the campaign gamne unless otherwise noted. The planctary gane
represcnted in sections on thc map. and moveiterl on thc planel
has no impacl tm military peralions.
uses only the planetary ap.
is determinetl by u hexagomal grid. Fach hex in th grit! rtcpreseuls
ruughly 300 kilometers.
COMPONENTS
The planetary map is furtherdividleel inlo lcn planetary arcas.
Urhan hexes represent major concentrations of
[hesc ureax idctlily the sci-up locitiun of forres used in greounu
civilian populalions
comhat.
Prefert includen all of the components nccessary r ply
The map ineludes a Turn Reeord Track le murk the passugt
both the planetary and space gamcs.
Foet
ol' tine, enbat rcsulis tables, id uther cheats ihc players will ust
Forest hexes represcnt terrain covered by trees
cluring the cuursc nf thc game. Farh gatnc tur'n lasis twelve hurs.
or other operatinmally significant fotiage.
the mip also hus a Tusk Foree Muvement Track ihat will
help thc piaytrs kecp track of how uny Task Furues they e
turing a turn.
EANETARY
PLANETAR
PLANETART
PLANETARY
PLANETARY
AREA IS
AREA 11
SUN
BRECH
ERTON
DOG
MEAT
HOY
PLANETARY
PLANEIARY
PLANETAAY
"LANEIARY
LANETARY
AREA部1O
REA 解胞
AREA了

--- PAGE 5 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
COUNTERS
Uni Sise
Rough
This numher identifies the size of the ground unit this
Rough terrain hexes represent areas filled with
This game includes 540 individual playing pieces, divided
counler reprcscn1s. The following symbols are used to designate
gullies and hills.
inlo two categories: cunters represcnting ground units and
unit size, Sce Ground Organization for more informalion on
bases, and information counters used tn keep track of the status of
Crters
ground-formation organization.
units, levels of supply. and so on. Punch out these counters and
Crater hexes show terrain hit by meteor or
sort them according lo calegory and color.
XX Legion, A force that consisis of ten combat Cohorts or
comet strikes. The hex ineludes the impact cratcr
Rcd counters are units or bases onirolled by thc ToOG
Battalions. This force is capable of operating independently.
and all matter ihrown clear of the crater by the sirike.
player. Blue counters indicate that the unit or basc is controlled by
Units of this size are usually equipped only with ground forces.
the Renegade/Comummwealth player.
Warer
IlRegiment or Auxilia. A force that consisis of three to six
Water hexes represent large lakes, seus, and
Planetary Unit Cuunters
combat Cohorts or Battalions. This force is capable of operating
oceans. Water terrain only has an effect ort opera-
These counters represent the planetary elements of a Legion.
independently. Units of this size are usually equipped only with
tions if n other terrain feature is prcscnt in the hex.
Regiment, or Auxilia. The main combal elements are Cohorts or
ground forces.
Batialions. cach comprising filty-fkur to nincly combat grav
Some hexes contain more than one type of terrain. If the
vehicles. Cenlury- or company-sized units represcn spceialized
Il Cnhart or Battalion, A force that consists of six to ten
terrain to be used in a given hex is disputed, the player with a unit
combal support units. such as headquarers, engineers, air te-
Centuries or Companies of combat vehicles, such as armor or
in the hex decides thc typc of terrain it occupien. Note that terrain
fense, and signal units. The diagram below shows what each
infantry. (Throughout the rest of these rules, atl such units are
can affect zoncs of control, detcction. and combat. Whalever
nurnber represents.
referred to ias Cohorls, even ifthc aciual unit mighi bc a Battalion.)
terrain is chosen for a given turn applies throughout that turn.
Cemmhut Unirs
I Century or Cumpany. A force of approximately nine
RECORD SHEETS
specialized conbat vehicles. Century-sized units are always
Prefect provides two record shects to heip tach player kccp
PARENT UNT
support units, (Throughout thc rest of these rules, all such units
irack of each of his units. Unless otherwise noted. these sheels
are refered to as Centurics, even if the actual unit mighi be a
should not be seen hy the opposing player.
UNIT SIZE
Company.!
iNIT TYPE-
Legion/Auxilia Record Sheet
6 2/2
Paeht Uni!
One Legion/Auxilia Record Sheel is used for cach operating
The Parent Lnit nurber identifies the controlling headquar-
Legion/Auxilia on the planet. Each Task Force controlled hy the
ATTACK VALUE
SIG.ESM VALLE
ters for 1he unit.
Legion has a Task Force Box for recoring the conhat and
DEFENSE VALUE
suppor1 units assigned 1o that Task Force. 'This shect is kepl
AffarkVafue
separatc from the rmap and out of sight of the opposing player.
The Attack Value represents the offernsive strength of the
Legions may operate a maximum of eighteen Task Forces.
Support Unirs
unit.
Auxilia may only operate a maximum of six Task Forces.
PARENTUNIT
Defense Vatue
Supply Record Track
41660E
The Defense Value represents the efficiency and survivabil-
This record track is used to keep track of thc suppiy points
+ UNIT SIZE
UNIT TYPE -
ily of the unit when attacked. Suppor units' Defense Values
available at euch of the bases, Legions and Auxilia thc player
appear in parentheses to indicate that the number is used only for
0 (2) ·3/3
controls. The player places the Supply counter for each of the
saving rolls. and is not added to the TFotal Defense Value of the
bases, Legions and Auxilia thal he controls on the appropriate
SIG.ESM VALUE
ATTACK VALUE
Task Force.
numher, to indicate ihat base's current level of supply.
DEFENSE VALUE

--- PAGE 6 [OCR] ---
RULES
At the start of ihe game, both players nay place all of their
Status Counters
SIG/ESM Values
Task Force counters on the map as part of the set-up procedure.
Status counters represent various tasks or conditions as-
These values represent the strength of the unit's Signature
During the coursc of thc game, Task Forces may be aclivaled and
signed 1o units.
(Sig) and Electronie Surveillancc Measures (ESM). The Signa-
lure Value indicales how well the unit can hidc. A low Signature
units shuffled belween ihem. according lu the rules.
Fafighe
Value is better than a high Signature Value. The ESM Vaiue
FATIGUE
PARENT
This counter is used io indicate that a unit is
indicates how well the unit can pinpoint the location of enemy
212th
212th
2121
sufferiig fatiguc.
[x]
[x]
uniis. A high ESM Valuc is better than a low EsM Value.
[x]
TF #2
TF #1
TF #3
LAF
Unit Type
LAF
This counter js used to indicate that a unit is
Unit Iype
operating in Low-Altiude Flight mode.
legion Base Counters
Medium Grav Armor
Engineers
Legion bases are permanenl sites used as bascs of operaliun
for ground forces, and provide local-area defense against rhital
Heavy Grav Armor
This counter is used to kccp track of the current
Headquarters
bombardment. Bases vary in size and capability. Fur lypes of
game lum.
Legion hases exist, cach with a different rating:
TURN
Light Grav Armor
Signal
Type
Rating
Cohort support base (G1)
Armor Grav Artillery
Space & Air Delense
Morement
Manus support base (G2)
A Moverrient counter is supplied for cach side.
Intaniry
Marine Intantry
Legion suppon base (G3)
These counters are placed on the Planctary Map
Planctary support basc (G4)
MOVEMENT
Armored Grav Intantry
Gray Armor Engineer
Mvement Track, and record ihe number of Task
Forces hoth sides moved during the tum.
The numbers below the symbol for the base type on the Base
Planetary Task Force Counters
counterare its Aitark, Defensc, ant EsM Values. but thcsc values
Confusion. ignorace, and fog-uf-war during battle are real
Moned
arc only used in the space game.
and influential aspects of conbat. Grav legions operate in a
Thc Moved counier is placed under Deferding
dispersed deployment, and so efficient detecion of enemy forces
Task Forces that engaged in a Dcferkder counleraction.
MOVED
can enable a smaller force to defeat a much larger force. An entire
10
sciencc within warfarc thcory, intelligencc and counter-intelli-
Breakrhgconeraark
RATINE:
BREAK.
This counter is used on the Breakihrough/
gence, has been devoted to effeclivc deleclion.
(2) (4) 0/1
(4) (7) 0/2
(6) (11) 0/3
(11] [11] 0:4
THROUGH
In the planetary gane. combat and supporr units are not
Counterattack track to record the nutnber of break-
throughs and counterattacks made during el tum.
placed on the plianetary map. Instead, they are placed on the Task
Force Record Sheel of sheir parent organization, and the appropri-
Supply
These counters are used on the Legion and hase supply
TOG/CW
ale counters are placed on the imap. Ai the start of the game. any
TOG
tracks. An ID Number on each counter identifies the counier with
These counters are used lo show control of
number of combat and support units can be placed in a Task
its base.
urban areas.
Force, but each Task Force piaced on the map mst contain at
least one combat or support unit. The maximuin number of F'ask
PARENT
Disrupfed
212th
DIS
These counters are used to indicate disrupted
size of that parent organization. A Legion-sized organization can
units.
have up to twenty Task Forces. A Regiment- or Auxilia-sized unit
100
SEPP.y
SUPPLY
may have up to six task forces.
IEVHL
LEVEL

--- PAGE 7 [OCR] ---
T PREFECT
PLAYING THE GAME
Combat Phase
DIE
The Aitacker declares and resolves his attacks. He
This game uses one ten-sided die (ID0). The sides of the
declares all the atlacks he will rmake, then attempts to d
The planetary game of Prefect is played in a number of turns
die are numbered from 0 to 9, with the 0 representing 10. In
Defender units. The Defender, in rctum, allempts to detec
delcmined by the scenario. Each time the scquence of play is
Prefect, as in all Renegade Legion games, a roll of 1 is an
Attacker units engaging in combat this turn. Finally, all at
completed, thc Tum counter on the Turn Rccord Track should be
automalic success and a roll of 10 is an aulomalic failure.
are resolved, in any order chosen by the Attacker.
advanced one space.
Only Task Forces in hexes adjacent to an enemy Task l
GAME SET-UP
may make an allack. Each Defender Task Force may on
SEQUENCE OF PLA Y
atacked once, but may be attacked by a combination of se
Thc Attacker for the first tum is usually spccified by the
Prefect is designed for two players. Each playcr chooses
Attacker Task Forces in adjacent hexes. Units of a Task f
sccnario. lf not, the playcr who placed thc first 'Task Force is the
which side he or she will play, TOG or Commonwealth/Ren-
involved in an altack become fatigued. The Defender ma
first Atiacker. Play continues until onc player's victory condi-
initiate attacks during this phase; he may do so only durin
egade, then they choose which scenario they will play frotn the
tions are tnet or until the number of turns specified in the scenaric
Scenario book. New players may find it helpful to begin with the
Movcment Phase.
has been reached.
Liberation scenario before attempting more advanced scenarios.
The Altacker for each successive lurn is determined during
Supply Phase
More advanced players can design their own scenarios using the
the Tempo Phase at thc cnd of the prcvious lurm. Each tum is
Each playcr may retnove Fatigue counters from fri
Scenario Design rules, p. 47.
divided into the following phases.
Tusk Forces and rebuild units during the Supply Phase by ex
Each player first allocates all his ground forces to his
ing supply points. Supply points are first expended to rei
Legion/Auxilia Task Force Record Sheets. Each unit must be
Movemen Phase
The Altackcr moves as many Task Forces as he wishes.
Faligue countcrs from Task Forccs and to rebuild destroyed .
assigned to a specific Task Force. Both players then roll a die, and
"Then new supply points may be delivered to each pla
the player with the highest result places a Task Force counte! on
following thc Movement rules. p, 9. For each Task Force moved
Legions.
the ground map, anywhere within his operational area as defined
by the player whose turn it is, that player should arijust the Task
by the scenario, The second player places one Task Force counler
Force Movcment Track per the Movement rules. Defender
Movement and Combat also takes placc during the Movermcnt
Withdrawal Phase
within his operational area, and the players altermate until all the
Disrtpted units are moved during this phase. Units disri
Task Force counters are placed. Only one Task Force may be
Phase. After the Attacker rmevex his first Task Force, the De-
fender may move one Task Force. and so on. following the
in this turn are eligitle to movc.
placed in a hex.
Defender Cuunteractiuns rules. p. Io.
Task Force Adjustment Phase
Units on both sides may bc moved lo join adjacen!
Forces in this phase, and new Task Forces nay be activated
reinforcements due to arrive this turn are placed on the map
appropriale spot, and can be incorporated into a new Task F
Ternpo Phase
If the curtent Attacker has achieved more breakthrt
than hc has suffered counteratiacks in this tum, he will h
Altackcr again during the next turn, If ihe current Attacke
suffered more counterattacks ihan he has achieved b
throughs, the Defender will become the Attacker during the
turn. The Tum counter is advarted and the next tum siarts
 new Movemcnt Phase.
Note that at the end of ihe Termpo Phase, the counters t
Task Force Movement Track and Breakthrough/Countera
Traek should be resel lo zcro.

--- PAGE 8 [OCR] ---
RULES
TERRAIN EFFECTS ON MOVEMENT
MOVEMENT PHASE
COMBAT MODE
Because most vehicles in Prefect are grav-equipped, terrain
In Combat moverment mode, the Task Force's vehicles fly al
has no direci effect on movcmenl rales. Grav vehicles can fly over
a distance of up lo twenty melers above the planct's surface,
Movement on the planetary tmap is regulated by a hex grid.
the densest jungles or the most rugged mountains as easily as they
carefully changing speeds and flight allitudes as appropriate
Each hex represents an area of approximalely 300 kilometers.
travel over a flat plain, However, rougher tertain affects combal.
while searching for the enemy. stopping, changing formation.
Grav-equipped units can achieve speeds up to 9(00 kph, and so in
becausc it reduces the effectiveness of detection sensors.
and so on. This is the usual mode in which combal units travel.
1welvc hours, a single grav tank can travel 10,&(0 kilometers, or
Terain docs affect the movement of non-grav-equipped
A Task Force in Combat node rmay movc up to ten he xes per
about 36 hexcs. Coordinating the movement of a large numher of
units. See Non-t'ray Forces, p. 18.
turn, less one hex for each conibal unit in the Task Force. There
combat vehiceles is difficull and time consuming, however, and so
is no movement penalty for support units in a Task Force.
the distance that a Task Force can cover in twelve hours is more
A Task Force containing one or more hcadyuaricrs unis
CURVATURE EFFECTS ON MOVEMENT
closely relaled to its command and control capabilities than the
adds onc to iis ratc of movement, A Task Force cannol exceed a
maximum speed of the individual vehicles. A Task Force consist-
The planetary game of Prefect is played out across the
speed of ten hexes per turn when in Combat modc.
ing of a single combat unit or under the direct guidance of a
curved surface of a planet, therefore, a Task Force circumnavigat-
Regardless of the number of combal units assigned to a Task
headquarters unit can imove faster than a Task Force in which
ing the world along its cquator will travel a grcater distance than
Force, Task Forces can always move at lcasl ollc hex.
muliple conbal uniis are attcmpling 1o coordinalc their movc-
one circumnavigating ihe world within two hundred kilometers
mcnts without a headquaners unit.
of cither pole. To reproduce this effect, the planetary map shows
For example, a Task Farce consists of two
A Task Force moves from hex to adjacent hex as far as thc
somc hexes split into two or mre parts. Task Forces. ciies, and
Medium Gray Cohorts and a Signal Century. There-
moving player wishes, up to its maximum movement atlowance.
inslallations cxceupying a *"half hex" actually occupy all parts of
Fore, it may move up to eight hexes in Combat mode
An Attacking Task Forcc's movenent allowancc is delermined
thal hex, no mater where these parts lie on the map. Hexes
[10 - 2 combat units). If a headquarters unit was
by ils size, composition, and the movement mode selected for it
adjacent to a partial hex are adjacent to all parts of that hex.
added to the Task Force, it wauld have a Combat
by the piayer. Task forces may not move into enemy-occupied
movement rate of nine hexes per turn. Adding d
hexes. (See Destroying Disrupted Units for an exception to this
second headquarters unit would not further improve
rule.) An Aitacking Task Force may tmove adjacent to a Defend-
this speed.
ing Task Force, but it is suhjcct lo delerlion and attack by that
Task Force (see Defender Counteraclinns).
Two different Attacker movement modes can upply, de-
LOW-ALTITUDE FLIGHT MODE
pending on whether the Attacker wishes the units lu move
A Tixk Force moving it LAF mode is flying al a tdistancc of
"?
cautiuusly and slowly orquickly and reeklessly. Buth rmodes have
TF r3
up l 1s.thxt melers (15 kilonettrs+ ahove the planet', surlece. at
advantages and disadvanlages.
-peeds appreitching 90 kph. A Task Forec tls ing in l..AF ult
Before moving cach Task Force, the Atiacker must declarc
is ul inertusd risk when ctilcring a combal zme, beciuse it is
if thc Task Force is nioving in Combal mexde or in I.ow-Allitule
more easily detected, it is more easily engaged by fighters. and its
Flight (LAF) tmode. The Task Foree conlinues to rmove in Ihe
tanks' relatively weak bottom armor is exposed to ground fire.
declared mode until it is moved in a subsequent turn. If LAF mode
A Task Force in l.AFmode may move upto twenty hexes per
is chosen., the Attacker should place a LAF status marker under
turn, less one for each combal unit in the Task Force. A Task
FISHERTON
thal Task Forcc's counter. Task Forces without an LAF counlcr
Force with one or more headquarters units adds one to its rate of
are considered to bc moving in Combal mode.
movement. A Task Force cannot exceed a speed of 20 hexes per
These movement rules assuine that all units in the Task
tum when in LAF mode.
Force are grav units. See Non-Grav Forces, p. I8, for moveinent
Note that it is possible toexit off the east or wesl edge of the
For example, a Task Force of four Light Gray
of Task Forces that contain ground unils.
map and reappear on the other side. Of course, it is not possible
Cohorts may move up to sixteen hexes in LAF mode
toexit off the north or south edge of the map (at the North or South
[20 -- 4 combat units). If the Task Force included one
Polc) and rcappcar at thc other pole.
or more headquarters units, he Task Force could
rmove up to seventeen hexes in LAF mode.

--- PAGE 9 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
If the Defending Task Forcc lecides to attack, the mt?
ZONES OF CONTROT:
STACKING
Task Force may attempt 1o detcct lhe Defending Task For
The six hexes imrmediaicly around a Delcnding 'Task Force
No more than one Task Force may end the Movement Phase
morc than onc Defending unit attacks simulianeously, the !
constitutc its zone of contul. Attacking or disrupted unils do not
in any one hex, though Task Forces may pass freely through hexes
ing playcr receives only one detection atempt, against the
have zones of controi. Zunes of control do not extend into rough,
occupied by fricndly Task Forces during movement. Task Forces
Force of his choice. The cornbat is then resolved.
eraters, mountain, forest, urban areas. or bases if the Attacking
may notenter hexes containing enemy Task Forces, bul may enter
Task Force is moving in Combal mode ( see p. 12). In dcternining
hexes containing disrupted enemy units. Disrupted units may notl
zones of control, it is especially impoflanl lo keep track of
enter hexes occupied by enemy units.
whether each Attacking Task Force is mowving in Coinbat or LAF
If a conbat result forces a Task Force into a hex occupied by
mode.
another friendty Task Force, then all units in those two Task
Forces are consolidated into one Task Force, and the empty Task
Force counler is removed. Nole that the remaining Task Force
immediately assumes the highest fatigue level of the two Task
Forces.
Fricndly Cohoris and Centuries may bc transferrcd belween
TF 1
FIS
adjacent Task Forces during the Task Force Adjustmcnt Phase. A
HERTON
Task Force may contain any number of friendly units.
706
TF P1
ILLUSTRATION I
ILLUSTRATION
For example, if the player controlling Task Force
1 requested, Task Force 2 would haye to interrupt its
LLUSTRATION 2
movement and allow Task Force 1 to attempt detec-
ILLUSTRATION 1
tion, and possibly attack, when Task Force 2 enlers
Task Force 1's zone of control (llustration 1 J. If Task
Far example, Defending Task Force 1 has d
Force 2 Foilows the path in Illustration 2, through the
zone of control into the six adjacent clear hexes in
urban area, Task Force 1 would nat be able to
Ilustration 1 . Its zone of control would not extend into
altempt to detect Task Force 2 or attack it.
he Forest or urban areas in Ilustration 2, however,
ifTask Force 1 were trying to detect and attack a Task
DEFENDER COUNTERAC'IIONS
Force moving in Combat mode.
Nothing in conbat is as regulated as it appears i
If a Task Forcc cnlers the zonc of control of an cnemy Task
textbooks. While troops are advancing, enemy commande!
Force, the Defending player may ask thc Attacker lo interrupi tinc
receiving word of the attack fron forward units. Units in
movement of his Task Force aund ailow the Defending player 1o
communicalion wih their hcadquarters can often move qu
make a detection altempt against the unit. (The Defending Task
to reintorce or rctreat, as required. In addition, local comma'
Forcc dixs not hve lu rriakc u deieetin allempl. If the noving
are able to inluil possible ind prohahle eneny movements al
(Attacking) Task Force then moves inin another hex in the enemy
accordirigly. An ebb and ilw resulis, with move and cot
Task Force's zone of controi, another deteclion attempt may be
move. In Prefect, this fluidity ix represented by allowin
Defender limited movement ard cmhat during the Attar
made.
movemcnt in the Movemnent Phase

--- PAGE 10 [OCR] ---
RULES
OVERRUNNING DISRUPTED UNITS
During the Movement Phase, the Defender may move r
Defender Cornbat
A Dcfender's Task Force may iniliate combal during the
attack with a nuinber of Task Forces eyual to the nutmber of Task
Friendly Task Forces may destroy disrupted enemy units
Movcmenl Phase against any Task Force in its aclivc zone of
Forces the Attacker has moved, A Defending Task Force that
during the Movemenl Phase. If a Task Force enters a hex
conlrol. Howcver, if a Defender's Task Force has moved during
attacks may not inove, and  Defending Task Force that mnves
containing disrupted enemy units, it may expend one Movement
the Movement Phase, it may not also initiate combat. When
may not attack.
Point to destroy one disrupted unit. Choose the destroyed unit
conducling a Defender counteraction, use all rules from Detec-
For each Task Force that the Attacker tmoves. the Defender
randomly if thcre is more than orne disrpted unit in the hex. The
tion and Combat, p. 12 and 13.
can move or initiate combal with onc Task Force. Record how
T'ask Force may wish lo expend more Movement Poinis and
A Defender's Task Force tiay only atiack a Task Force thal
many Task Forces the Attacker has moved on the Task Forcc
destroy more disrupted units. The friendly Task Force may not
it has detected in the current Movement Phase. A Defender's Task
Movemeni Track. Keep track of how many Defending Task Forces
remain in the hex if it does not have sufficient Movement Points
Force may make a detection attempt any time an enemy Task
have counteraeted on the same track. The number of the Defender's
to destroy ali the disrupted unis occupying the hex.
Furce is in a hex of ihe Task Force's zone of control, Only one
Task Forces on the Task Force Movermient Track may neverexceed
If a Task Force destroys any disrupted units during the
detection attempt may be made per hex, but if thc Atlacking unit
the number of the Atacker's Task Forces. A Defending Task Furce
Movement Phase, the Attacking Task Force's conbat unit with
moves from one hex of the Defending Task Force's zone of
may not counteract twice in one tum, even if more Attacking Task
the lowest Defense Value must make a saving roll, If it fails this
contro to another, a second detection attempt may be made.
Forces move than there are Defending Task Forces. If necessary,
roll, ihe Task Force is assigncd one level of fatigue.
Defender counteraction attacks might occur in the middle of
place a Moved counter under the Task Force counter to indicate that
In order to attack a disrupted unit, a Task Force must contain
an Attacking Task Furce's movement. If such a counteraction
it moved or engaged in combat that tum.
at least one combat iunit, Oiherwise, a Task Force caneot make
does take place, note the moving unit's remaining movement
The Defender may *'save'' actions unil later in the Move-
this attack.
allowanice. If the moving unit does not suffer a Defender Retreat
ment Phase. He rnay, for example, wait until the Attacker has
(DR) (o Breakithrough (BT) result, it may then continue its
Moved four Task Forces, then move four of his own Task Forccs.
The Defender may not split a Task Force's movement. That is, he
movement (see Combat, p, 14). If the Allacking T'ask Force
suffers a DR or BT result. it may not move after it has retreated.
may not move a Task Force just one hex, then move it another hex
If the Attacking Task Force is in the zone of control of more
or two later in the Movement Phase.
than one Defending unit, all Defcnding units that successfully
Defender Movement
detect thc A1lacking unit may combine for thc Defender's atlack
All Defender movement during the Movenent Phase is
(subject to ihe limil on the number of Defending units allowed to
made in Combat moxde. A Defending Task Force with one ur two
act at this point).
If a Task Force fails to detect an cneniy Fask Force during
combat units may movc three hexes. A Defending Task Force
with three or more combal units may move two hexes. The
the Movcnieni Phase, it may altempt dleteclion again during thc
Commonwealth/Renegade player may move the Task Force
onbat Phase.
containing the Manus Primus heatquarlers unit (1D#2) up lo three
If a Task Force fron either side detects an enemy Task Force
hexes. as long as ihat Task Force contains no more than four
during the Movement Phase, and neitherthe detectcd or delecting
combat units. This mkvement refleets the additional command
Task Force moves before ihe Combat Phase, that deteclion is still
and control elements assigned to that headquarters. TOG Legions
in effect during the Combat Phase, A second detertiofl attempl is
use the extra cquipnent to form a fifth Manus headquarters unit.
hot necessary.
No tertain restrictions apply to this rmovement as lotig as all
As long as a detected and rnoving Atlilcking Task Forcc
units in the moving Task Forces are grav-equipped. Defending
rcmains in the zone of conirol of a Defending Task Forcc, il can
Task Forces moving in LAF mode aulomatically changc lo
be atiacked at any time by the Defending Task Force, subject to
Comhat mode if they move as part af a Defender counteractiun.
the usual restrictions. Detections do not count as Defender
Onec the Task Force is in Comhal modc. it has an aclive znne of
counicractions. The Attacking Task Force may make il dctection
control and may make letection attempts as norinal.
atiempt against any countcrattacking Defending Task Force
The Defender may not move his Task Force into any enemy
before engaging in conbat.
Task Force's arlive zone nf control. Defender Task Forces tnay
movc inlo hexes adjacent to enetmy Task Forces without aclivc
7ones of control, bul this unit cannot nake detection attempts.
11

--- PAGE 11 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
A Task Force may not end its movement in a hex occupied
In Task Force 1, the TOG player has a Light
by an enemy unit, even if the enemy unit is disrupted.
Cohort with an ESM Value of 3 and a Medium Cohort
TERRAIN AND MOVEMENT EFFECTS
The Defender may destroy disrupted units as part of a
with an ESM Value of 2. That Task Force would have
ON DETECTION AND COMBAT
counteraction. It may do so as a part of its movement, in the sarne
a total ESM Value of 5. The Commonwealih player has
Terrain Type
Defense
Detection
ZOC
way an Attacking Task Force destroys disrupted units.
 Task Force adjacent containing a Heavy Cohart with
Modifier
Factor
Blocked?
a Sig Value of 3 and a Light Cohort with a Sig Value
Clear
No
DETECTION
of 1, for a total Sig Value of 4. The TOG player may
Forest
The high mobility of modern cornbat and the large areas over
announce any ESM Value between 1 and 5. (He might
Urban
Yes
which grav units operate make finding the exact location of
use a lower value than 5 in an attempt to make his
Rough
-3
Yes
opponent believe there are fewer or weaker units in his
cnemy units difficuit. Electronic countermeasures and other
Sink Holes*
Yes
Task Farce.J if the TOG player does not announce a
sensor-jamming eguipment only add lo thc confusion. If one side
Water
No
yalue lower than the actual ESM value, the Base Target
knows the other's exact location, the first side can concentrate its
Craters
Yes
Number for the detection attempt would be 9 (5 + 4].
forces against its enemy's dispersed forces and destroy those
Desert/Lava Flow*
No
forces piecemeal. Thus, it is important to know where the enemy
Unless this target number is Further modified for
Jungle*
is, and to conceal the location of friendly units.
lerrain, the TOG Task Force would detect the Com-
Mountains/Volcano*
Yes
Prior to any combat, players may make detection attempts
monweallh Task Force on a roll of 9 or less.
Swanp *
-3
Yes
against any enemy Task Forces that are adjacent to their own Task
Legion Base
-2 x Rating
Rating
Yes
Forces. The players state which enemy Task Force each of their
Note that a successful detection roll does not require the
Naval Base
-2 x Rating
Rating
Yes
Task Forces will attempt to detect, with the Attacker declaring
player to give his opponent the actual composition of the detected
Task Force at LAF
+6
first. Task Forces that traveled in LAF mode may not detect
Task Force.
* For use with Conversion system, page 43.
during this phase (see Movement, p. 9). Only one detection
Terrain Effects
attempt per Task Force may be made dufing this phase of the turn
A Task Force may have one detection attemipt made against it by
Terrain can drastically affect the operation of sensors. The
SIGNAL UNITS
each enemy Task Force in adjacent hexes, Defending Task Forces
more buili-up an area is, the more difficult it is to detect a hidden
unit. After the base larget number is determined by adding
Signal Centuries in Task Forces can be used to enhance ot
that made detection attempts as part of the Defender counterac-
together the EsM and Sig values, the detecting player applies
degrade detection attempts. Signal Centuries have an ESM Value
tion may not attempt detection in this phase. Task Forces may not
of 3 and a Sig Value of -3. The ESM and Sig values of signal units
conbine detection attempts against a single enemy Task Force;
modifiers to this value according to the terrain in which the unit
are not cumulative, regardless of the number of Signal Centuries
all detection attempts must be made as individual Task Forces.
to he detected is located, Only one terrain modifier may be used.
If the hex has multiple terain lypes, the player beitag detccted
in a Task Force
The player attempting detection totals the ESM values of all
the units in a Task Force. That numnber is the Task Force's
chooses the terrain modifier.
In the previous example, the TOG Task Force
maximum ESM value. The player announces the ESM value for
The rating of any Legion or naval bases located in the hex are
had a total ESM Value of 5 and the Commonwealth
this sensor attempt. This value can be any number up to the
also used to modify the deteclion attempt. The base ratings are
Task Force had a total Sig Value of 4. If the TOG Task
naximum ESM value for the Task Force. The player controlling
cumulative and can be added to the terrain modifier.
Force contained one or more Signol Cenluries, the
the opposing Task Force adds up the Sig value of the units in thar
The defense factor listed with the terain detection modifier
Task Force's ESM Value would be 8. If the Common-
Task Force, which becomes the Sig value. The EsM and Sig
is added to the defense value of the occupying unit (See Attack
wealth Task Force contained one or more Signal
values are added together to determine the base target nurnber.
Procedure).
Centuries, it would have  total Sig Value of 1 (4 -
Terrain yalues and other factors are then added, if applicable, to
3]. The Base Target Number for detection would still
Movement Effects
the base target number to determine the modified target number.
be 9. If only the TOG Task Force had a Signal
The detecting player then rolls ID10. If the result is equal to or
The moverrent mode of a Task Force affects the chances of
Century, the Base Target Number for detection
less than the target number, the Task Force has been detected, and
its detection. When in Low-Altitude Flight mode, a Task Force is
would be 12 (8 + 4]. If only the Commonwealth Task
flying well above the sensor shadow of any underlying terrain
the unit counter is flipped over to indicate this result. Rermember
Force had a Signal Century, the Base Target Number
that a result of I is always a successful rotl and a rcsul1 of 10 is
features, making the Task Force more vulnerable to detection, All
for detection wauld be 6 [5 + 1].
al ways a failure, regardless of the actual modified target number.
detection attempts against Task Forces at LAF are modified by
+6, and all underlying terrain is disregarded.
12

--- PAGE 12 [OCR] ---
RULES
COMBAT PHASE
recorded in the Task Force Holding Box, the attack or defense
detected, a different colurrin may be used to resolve the battle. The
value of each unit is reduced by 1 (see Fatigue, p. 15).
player whose forces have not been detected may choose to use the
This comparison (totai altack value to total defense value)
The basic objective in Prefect is to take or hold a star system.
column one column to the left or right of the delermined combat
produces a ratio. Round it down in the Defender's favor until it
This is done by capturing the primary world of the system, which
ratio colurmn. This choice must be miade before the combat die is
matches one of the ratios listed in the Cornbat Results Table.
is accomplished by eliminating its defenders. This boils down to
rolled.
destroying enemy units. Players maneuver Combat Cohorts and
If both sides have been detected, or if neither side has been
For example, a TOG Task Force consisting of
other assets against enemy forces to destroy them with little or no
dctectcd, no column shifts are made.
two Mediurm Cohorts with a combined Atack Value
loss to themselves. Irmportant strategies include focusing strength
of 6 is attacking a Commonwealth Task Force con-
If only the TOG Task Force from the previous
against weak points, the economic use of available resources, a
sisting of one Light Cohort with a Defense Value of 4
example is detected and the Commonwealth Task
cerlain amount of trickery, and knowing when to cut and run.
in an Urban hex with Defense Factor 3. The Combat
Force is not, then the Commonwealth player can
Combat is nornally initiated by the Attacker (but see De-
Ratio for this attack would be 6 to 7 or 2 to 3.
choose the combat ratio column to the leh ([1 to 2] or
tender Counteractions, p. 10). Attacking units may only attack
right [1 to 1] of the actual combat ratio column (2 to
adjacent enemy hexes. Each Defending Task Force may unly be
3), shifting the odds. If only the Commonwealth Task
Detection Shifts
attacked once in a Combat Phase, but several Task Forces
Force has been detected, the TOG player has the
adjacent to an enemy Task Force may cormbine their attacks. No
If any of the Attacking Task Forces have been detected, the
same set of choices.
Task Force may attack more than once per turml.
Attacker has bccn detected. If only one side's forcc has been
The Attacking player first declares which hexes are being
atlacked, and which Task Force will be used in each attack, Each
attack is made separately, with any retreats being resolved before
the next attack is made. The order in which the Task Forces attack
is detelmined by ihe Attacker, All units in an Attacking Task
Force must be involved in the battle.
If the Defending Task Force contains only support units, the
support unis are automatically destroyed (not disrupted), their
Task Force counter is removed, and the Attacking Task Force
may advance into the hex previously occupied by the Defending
Task Force. This does not count as a Breakthrough (see Resoly-
g the Combat below).
ATTACK PROCEDURE
The attack procedure is fairly straightforward. Players first
determine the combat ratio, taking into account the teitain the
Defending unit is occupying. Then column shifts are applied for
he deaeclion results. Finally, the players roll the die and consult
the Combat Results Table to determine the results of the attack.
Dettrpining the Cornbat Ratio
To detemnine the combat ralio, ihe attack yalues f the
combat units in the Artacking Task Force(s) are totaled and
copared o the sum of the deferse value of the conbat units in
e Defending Task Force plus the tertain defenise value of the
at in the Defender is occupying. The defense values of support
ts are not added to the total. Note that for each level of fatigue
NT3]

--- PAGE 13 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
Detection Modifiers. One of the Attacking Task Forces ha
been detected. Therefore, the Attacker has been detected, whil
COMBAT RESULTS
the Defender is undetected. The Defender may choose to shift th
2 to 1
3 to 2
2 to 3
1 to 1
1 to 2
3 to 1
combal ratio column one column to the left or right. The Deferde
(or more)
(or less)
shifts the Combat Ratio column one to the left, choosing 2 to ?
-ICA/+!
-1CA/+2
-2CA/+2
-2CA/+3
0/0
-3CA/+3
Resolving the Combat. The Attacker now rolls 1Dl0 wit!
-1AR/0
-IAR/+1
-2AR/+2
-IAR/+2
DAR/0
-2CA/+4
a result of 3. Consulting the Combat Results Table, and readin:
0/0
I+/0
-2AR/+4
-1AR/+2
-iAR/+l
+1/0
across Row 3, Column 2 to 3 shows a *_2AR** result for th
0/0
+1/0
-1/+1
1+/0
-1AR/+3
+1/-1
Attacker and a "+2"* result for the Defender. All the Defender'
+1/-1
+1/0
0/0
0/0
+2/-1DR
-1/+3
combat units must make saving rolls using a +2 modifier. All th
+2/-1DR
+1/0
0/0
+1/-1
0/+2
+2/-2DR
Atacker's combat units must make saving rolls at a target numbe
+2/-2DR
+2/-IDR
+1/--↓
+1/-1
+1/+2
+3/-2DR
modified by -2, a much more difficult roll. All three Atlackin
+3/-2DR
+2/-2DR
+3/-3DR
+1/-1
+1/+1
+1/IDR
Task Forces must also retreat from their hexes, keeping in min
+3/--3DR
+3/-2DR
+1/+1
+2/-1DR
+2/-1DR
+3/-3BT
that they cannot retreat into hexes previously occupied by on
+3/-3BT
+3/-3BT
+2/-2BT
10
+2/-2DR
+2/0DR
+3/-3BT
another. The Deferding Task Force may advance into one of th
ihree hexes which are now vacant.
SAVING ROLLS
rush into the gap. hiting rear-area support units. The Defending
Resolving the Combat
formations break up, to better protecl themselves, and retreat in
After the combat results are determined, the cornbat units o
Once the combat ralio column has been determined (or
disanay. The Defending Task Force's combat and support units
all attacking and defending Task Forces must make saving rolls
chosen), the Attacker rolls 1D10 and cross-references the result
must make saving rolls to avoid being destroyed. Those combat
with the appropriate column of the Combat Results Table.
Support units only make saving rolls if their side suffered :
and support units making a successful saving roll are disrupted.
Breakthrough or Counterattack result. The target number for eac!
The Combat Results Table rmay look formidable, but it is
The Task Force is removed from the board and any disrupted units
unit's saving roll is equal to its defense value plus or minus an?
simple to use. Numbers and abbreviations to the left of the slash
retreat. An Attacking Task Force may move into the abandoned
modifiers from the Combat Results Table. A- f modifier is alst
(/ apply to the Attacking forces. Numbers and ahbreviations to
hex, as in a DR result.
applied to the saving rolls of Attacking units that moved in LA!
the right of the slash apply to the Defending forces. The numbers
CA. This result is a counterattack. Record ii on the Break-
modify the defense value of any unit making a saving roll (see
mode this tum.
through/Counterattack Track. The Defender broke the oncorming
Roll a die for each unit that is making a saving roll. If thu
Saving Rolls, below). The following abbrevialions represent
attack, wreaking havoc in rear areas and on unprepared advancing
results in addition to the saving roll mnodifiers.
result is less than or eqtal to the modified defense value of tho
units. The result is ihe same as for a breakthrough, but appilies to
AR/DR. These are attacker retreats and defender retreats.
unit, the unil is unharmed. If the result is more than the rodifiei
the Attacking Task Force. No retreating units may move into a
defense value, the unit is disrupted.
respectively. Afier all saving rolls have been made by both sides.
Units that are making saving rolls as a result of a BT or CA
the player with the retreat result must now retreal frorn the hatile.
voived in this combat.
A retreating Task Force must move to an adjacent hex that does
result are attempting to avoid being destroyed, and are considerer
not contain an enemy Task Force, If there is no such hex, then the
to be disrupted if they make their saving roll. Destroyed units art
Example of Combat
Task Force is destroyed, Disrupied units are moved with the
rermoved from the map, but can be rebuilt (see Rebuildin?
The Attacker is using three Task Forces (Altack Values 5, 4,
Destroyed Units, p. 1 7).
retreating Task Force.
and 3) to attack a Defending Task Force (Defense Value 9) in a
The non-retreating player may, if he wishes, rmove one of his
Units that fail their saving roll and are disrupted are remover'
forest (Defense Value 2).
from their Task Force's Holding Box and placed on the planetary
Task Forces involved in the cornbat into the newly vacated hex.
Combat Ratio. The basic combat ratio is 12 to 9. However.
No Defender counteractions may take place in response to this
map in the Task Force's hex. Disrupted units move in th
the Defender is in a forest, so his defense value is increased by 2.
move. (See Capturing a Base.)
Withdrawal Phase. Disrupted uniis can be reorganized arir
The combat ratio modified by terain is 12 to H1. This rounds
B'. This result is a breakthrough. Record it on the Break-
brought back into action by reaching a Task Force with a friendly
down to 1 to 1.
through/Counterattack Track. It indicates that the Defending
headquarters unit atlached to it, or by reaching a friendly Legior
frontline units are penetrated at a weak point. The Attacker's units
base and expending supply points. (See Reorganizing Dis.
rupted Units, p. 17.)
14

--- PAGE 14 [OCR] ---
RULES
defense of that Task Force. The newly retreated Task Force also
action are applied immediately.
For example, an undetected TOG Task Force
For each subsequent combat the Task Force engages in, its
suffers any effects of the second combat, and must make another
consisting af wo Medium Cohorts with a combined
fatigue level increases by one, to a maximum of three.
saving rull if required.
Attack Value of 6 and a signal unit is attacking a
Task Forces that retreat are not subjec1 to further atlack
Each level of fatigue a Task Force suffers reduces the attack
detected Commonwealth Task Force consisting of
unless they join a friendly Task Force against which an unre-
and defense values of all units in the Task Force by one. Note that
one Light Cohort with a Defense Value of 4 and a
the lower defense value also reduces a unit's target number for
solved attack nas been declared. Units that fail their saving roll
Manus headquarters, located in an Urban hex. The
retreat with their Task Force.
saving rolls. If a Task Force has a Fatigue Level of 3, it cannot
TOG force is attacking at 1 to 2 odds, which are
Any of the Attacking Task Forces may cnter the hex that the
altack, either in the Combat Phase or as a defensive counteraction
shifted to 1 to 1 because of the Defending Task
Defending Task Force retieated from even if the hex is in another
in the Movement Phase. A Task Force with a Fatigue Level of 3
Defending Task Force's active zone of control. That Defending
Force's detected status.
cannot destroy disrupted units.
The combat result rolled is an 8, a +1/-1DR
Fatigue counters may he removed by expending supplies
Task Force may not attack the moving Task Force.
result, The two medium combat units of the TOG Task
(see Supplies, below).
Force save on a roll of 7 or less (Defense Value of 6
If a unit frorm a fatigued Task Force joins another Task
each with a combat result modifier of +1j. The Light
Force, the highest fatigue level applies. If a Task Force splits its
Cohort of the Commonwealth Task Force saves on a
units, both new Task Forces rctain the fatigue level of the original
TF P
roll of 3 [4 - 1], and the Commonwealth Task Force
Task Force. If two Task Forces join, the highest fatigue level of
ilself must retreat to an adjacent hex that is not
the two forces applies to the combined force.
occupied by any TOG Task Forces.
Fatigue is never applied to a disrdpted unit, A disnupted unit
has a Fatigue Level of 0.
ARTILLERY
For example, α Light Cohort from α Task Force
Artillery Cohorts provide important support for attacking oe
: For example, Commonwealth Task Forces 1
with a Fatigue Level of 2 joins α Task force with a
defending forces. These units can fire shells at distances of
and 2 are under attack by TOG Task Forces 3 and
Fatigue Level of o. The combined Task Force now has
hundreds of kilometers with surprising precision. If used to
A, respectively. The TOG ployer decides to resolve
a Fatigue Level of 2.
support an attack, artillery inissions can be called in by frontline
the Task Force 3 attack first. ff Task Force 1 must
Cohorts and strike with pinpoint accuracy. Even without exact
retreat, it can retreat to any of the indicated hexes.
DESTROYING DISRUPTED UNITS
firing coordinates, modern artillery vehicles can lay down im-
If it elects to refreat to the hex occupied by Common-
A disrupted unit may be destroyed by an Attacker moving
pressive long-range strikes
wealth Task Force 2, its units are immediately trans-
into the disrupted unit's hex during the Moverernt Phase. Dis-
An Artillery Cohort adds its attack or defense value to the
ferred to Task Force 2.
Tupted units may also be attacked normally during the Combat
combat value of any Task Force to which it is assigned as normal,
When Task Force 2 is attacked, only the combat
Phase of the tirn. Any attack against a disrupted unit or units is
but does not have to make a saving roll unless its Task Force
units it contained at the start of the Combat Phase can
autotnatically successful. Any disrupted units in the attacked hex
suffers a breakthrough or counterattack result. If the Artillery
be used for defense. However, all combat units from
are destroyed and removed from the map. The Attacking combat
Cohort is the only combat unit in the Task Force, the Artillery
Task Force 1 must also make a saving roll against the
unit wih the lowest defense value must make a saving roll. If it
Cohort makes a saving roll as a normal combat unit.
attack.
fails this roll, the Task Force suffers one levcl of fatigue.
FATIGUE
If one or more disrupted units occupy the same hex as a Task
RETREATS
Units involved in combat become fatigued, Men are tired,
Force that is involved in combat, the disrupted units are safe
A Task Force that suffers a retreat result must be moved by
stores have been used, rounds expended. The vehicles have taken
unless the support units in that Task Force must make saving rolls.
the owning player from its current hex to an adjacent hex. That
minor datnage and need lo be repaired. Crews nced sleep.
If the support units must make saving rolls, all disrupted units in
hex cannot contain an enemy Task Force but may contain a
To represent these factors, a Fatigue counter is placed in the
the hex are destroyed and removed from the map. These forces
friendly Task Force.
status box of any Task Force that has engaged in combat during
may be rebuilt (see Rebuilding Destroyed Units, p. 17). lf the
If a Task Force retreats into a hex occupied by a friendly
the turn. Note that a Task Force can receive a Faligue counter
Task Force retreats, the disrupted unit retreats with it, and may
Task Force, the units of the two Task Forces are combined into
move as normal in the Withdrawal Phase.
one Task Force. However, if the occupying Task Force is being
during the Movement Phase as a result of a dcfensive counterac-
tion. The effects of fatigue suffered during a defensive counter-
attacked, thc newly reireated force may not contribute to the

--- PAGE 15 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
Following the transfer of supplies, each player allocates
SUPPLY PHASE
MAXIMUM SUPPLY-POINT STORAGE
supplies to his Legion,bases, or as deicrmined by the stenario.
Total supply points
This alloxcation should be recorded on ihe appropriate Supply
An army fails or succeeds in its mission according to its
Base Rating
that can be stored
Record Track for that hase. These supply points may nol be
stpplies. Munitions, fuel, fod, spare and replacement parts, even
25
Cohort Support Base (G1)
transferred during the current tu.
mail are vital to keeping units in fighling trim, or, in some cases,
50
In the planetary game, each friendly Legion base receives a
Manus Support Base (G2)
to allow themn to fight at all. Reing low on supplies can he bad, but
Legion Suppor1 Basc (G3)
100
ccrlain number of suppty points cach turn as dictated by the
heing out of supplies is often fatal.
Planelary Suppon Base (G4)
100
scenario. Sumetimes this flow of supplies is based on the number
Headquarters units serve as storehouses and distribution
Legion Headquarters
of friendly cities under the side 's control. The supplien might also
points for supplies and reinforcenents for the forces serving
Auxilia Headquarters
represent a one-lime shipment from off-planet. Fach Legion base
under them. These headquarters units represent the command and
and headquarters can store a maximum number of supply psints.
control centers of their forces, and serve as the transportation.
If the incoming level of supplies is greater ihan the storage
Note that supplies camied by a Legion or Auxilia are consid-
maitenarce, and repair facilities of the Task Force.
capacity of the unit, the excess supply points are iost.
ered to bc slored with the headquaricrs unit.
I.egion bascs can rcpair or replace damaged vehicles and
men, and also serve as depots to receive supplies from off-planet,
REARMING FATIGUED TASK FORCES
or as a collection point for supplies.
Any friendly base or headquarters unit nay remove fatigue
Naval bases cannot supply ground troops, and Legion bases
levels fron any Task Force. The Task Force being supplied must
cannot supply naval uniis.
be able to trace a valid line of communications to a Legion
During the Supply Phase, each player can perform ihe
headquarters or Legion base. The player must expend 1 supply
folowing actions in the order they appear.
point per combat or support unit contained in the Task Force to
remove one level of farigue. Multiple levels of fatigue may be
1. Transfer supply points between fricndly headquarlers and
rcmoved in one tum as iong as sufficient supply points have been
bases;
expended. A player may tcmove part of a Task Force's fatigue in
2. Expend supply points from any base or headquarters to
one turn, rather than fully restoring the Task Force. The supplies
remove fatiguc from their units;
used to restore any Task Force can cone from multiple sources.
3. Expendl supply points to reorganize any disrupled unit
if necessary.
that is curtently with a friendly base or a Task Force containing
Players arc not required to restore fatigucd Task Forces.
a headquariers unit: and
4. Expend supply poinls from a Lcgion base to rebuild
For example, a Task Force with a signa! unit, a
destroyed uniis.
Light Cohort, ond a Heavy Cohort has a Fatigue Level
af 2. The player must expend 6 supply points to fully
SUPPLY POINTS
restore the Task Force, and 3 supply points to restore
At the start of the Supply Phase, both players may transfer
it to a Fatigue Level of 1. The player may not.
supply points from their Legion bases to any friendiy Legion or
however, expend 4 supply points to fully restore only
Auxilia hcadquartcrs unit or other friendly facilitics as tong as d
the Heavy Cohort and not restore the signal unit or
valid line of communications exists belween the sending base/
Light Cohort at the same time.
unit and the receiving base/unit. A line of communications is
considered valid if a continuous line of hexes can be traced from
Regardless of unit type, a single suppiy point will remove
the sending base/unit to thc receiving base/unit that does not cross
one levcl of fatiguc from a unit, bccause supplies are not neant to
a hex occupied by an cnemy Task Force, enemy disrupted unit.
replace dcstroyed equipmeni, but rather to replace consuniable
enemy base, or enemy active zone of control. This line of
munitions, supplies, and incapacitated soldiers. Because all units
cormmunications is not limited by distance or terrain as long as the
Nunis-12
have about the same number of personnel and vehicles, a single
L.egion/Auxilia headquariers receiving the supplies is a gray unit.
unit of supply wilt have the same effect on evcry ype of unit.

--- PAGE 16 [OCR] ---
RULES
TASK FORCE ADJUSTMENT PHASE
REORGANIZING DISRUPTED UNITS
REBUILDING DESTROYED UNITS
After thc players have restored fatigucd Task Forces, thcy
Units destroyed during the course of the game can be rehuilt
Foliowing the Withdrawal Phase, the players may change
at any friendly Legion base at double the reorganization cost. The
may reorganize disrupted unis thal are in the same hex as a Task
the composition of friendly Task Forces.
Force with a friendly Legion, Auxilia, or Manus Headquarters
rating of the base is equal to the number of unis that base can
A new Task Force may now be crcaled adjacent to any Task
rebuild in one lumn. A player must expend 1 supply point to rebuild
unit, or at a Legion base.
Force containing a headquarters, or at a friendly base. Task
The basc or headquarters may reorganize as many units as it
a Militia Regiment. and 4 supply points lo rebuild a Garison
Forces adjacenl lo one another may freely exchange units. Re-
has supply points to do so. The cost for reorganizing various types
Legion.
member, though, that a unit's fatigue level applies to its new Task
Once the unit is rebuilt, a new Task Force counter is placed
of units is listed in the Reorganizing Cost Table below.
Force ( see Fatigue, p. 15). If, after exchanging units, a Task Force
Disrupled headquarters may not reorganize disrupted units,
on ihe map in the hex with the Legion base, unless the rebuilt uni1
no longer has any units assigned to it, that Task Force is removed
but may be reorganized by a functioning Legion Headquarters or
is assigned 1o a friendly Task Force alrcady in that hex. (However,
from the map.
Legion base. A disrupted Manus Headquarters may be reorga-
the player's Task Force limit may not be exceeded.) If the player
Units from a Task Force operating in LAF mode apply their
does not have a Task Force available in which to place the unit.
nized by its parent Legion Headquarters or a Legion base of
movement status to any Task Force they join.
the unit may not be rebuilt that turm, and the supply is not spent.
Rating 2 or larger. A disrupted Legion Headquarters may be
Players cannot rebuild units that have not heen destroyed. In
rcorganized by a fricndly Legion base of Rating 3 or larger.
TEMPO PHASE
Headquarters units occupying a full Water hex cannot reor-
other words, they cannot create new units by rebuiiding. Players
cannot voluntarily destroy a unit in order to rebuild it elsewhere.
ganize disrupted units.
Tempo refers lo the speed or pace of combat. If the tempo is
T'he supply points used to rebuild a destroyed unit must be
slow, units are conducting small operations, mixed with an
availabie al the Legion base where the rebuild is occuring.
cccasional large operation, as both sides probe for weak points in
REORGANIZING COST
Players may tot use multipie sourccs to rebuild a destroyed unit.
their opponent's lines. If the tempo is swift, however, things are
Unit Type
Supply Points
happening fast. Troops are advancing quickly, and battles are
WITHDRAWAL PHASE
Comhat Units
rapid, bloody affairs. A fast-tempo combat often focuses on one
Light Gray Cohort
or several areas it the line, such as potential breakthroughs or
After the Supply Phasc, the players should check cvcry
Mediutm Grav Cohort
successful advances. A fast-tempo attack can be bad news for the
disruptcd uni1 on thc map. If any disrupted uni1 cannot trace a
Heavy Grav Cohort
commander on the receiving end.
valid line of communication to a friendly headguarters or base.
Infantry Grav Cohort
In the Ternpo Phase, the players determine which player will
that unit is automatically destroyed and is removed from the map.
Artillery Grav Cohort
be the Attacker for the next turn. If the Attacker achieved rnore
All disrupted units that can trace a valid linc of comtnunication 1?
Marine Cohort
breakihroughs than the Defender had counterattacks, the current
a fricndly headquartcrs or base can now move up lo nine hexes in
Militia Regiment
turn's Attacker will continue as the Attacker riext turn. The
Combat mode, rather than LAF. The units are nol subject to
Garmison Legion
Defender will again be the Defender, If the Defender achieved as
detection or attack during the Withdrawal Phase, but they may iot
Support Units
many as or more counterattacks than the Attacker had break-
move through active enemy 7ones of control or hexes occupied by
Air Defense
throughs, thc current Defender becomes the next tumn's Attacker.
enemy Task Forces or bases. Any number of disrupted units may
Combat Engineer
stack together, even on a hex occupied by a friendly Task Force.
Construction Engineer
CAPTURING A BASE
If a disrupted unit can make it back to a Legion base or a Task
Signal Century
Force containing a headquarters unit before being destroyed, the
Manus/Auxilia Headquarters
During the course of the planetary game, enemy Legion or
Unit counter is piaced under the Base or Headquarters counter to
Legion Headquarters
nava! ground bases, as well as urban areas, may be captured. If a
indicate that the unit is still disrupted.
unit enters a hex containing an enemy base or urban area, replace
Disrupted units cannot aid in any attacks or be added to the
the curent enemy counter with the appropriate TOG or Common-
defense value of a Task Force or basc. Disrupted units make
wealth hase counter, or mark captured urban areas with the
saving rolls as support units. If a disrupled unit al a base fails a
appropriate TOG or CW counter. Any supplies present may be
saving roll, the unit is destroyed.
captured.
17

--- PAGE 17 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
If the friendly Task Force was able to enter the base without
across Water hexes, If a non-grav unit is attached to a Task Force.
available to each playcr. The players must assign the new base to
attacking an enemy Task Force, or by attacking a enemy Task
these movement restrictions apply to the entire Task Force.
a Task Force able to trace a valid line of cornmunication to a
Force and achieving a B result, any supplies in the bast are
Valid lines of communicalion to indeperdently opcrating
friendly base or headquarlers.
captured and can be used by the friendly player. If the base
non-grav units cannot be lraced over Watcr hcxes.
During the next tum's Supply Phase, the base can be
contained only disrupted units, or a Task Force consisting solely
Non-grav forces are affected by fatigue as normal, but non-
constructed in the hex by its assighed Task Force. One Construc-
of support units. ihe supplies are considered captured. If the
grav forces that fail a saving roll are destroyed.
tion Engineer Century is required to build a GLl base, two to
friendly Task Force entcrcd the base by aitacking an enemy Task
Non-grav units forced to retreat into full watcr hcxcs are
build a GL2 base, and three to build a GL3 base. Supply must also
Force which received a DR result, the supplies are destroyed.
destroycd.
be expended in order to construct a base. A GLl base requires 5
Once captured, bases can be used without restrictions hy the
supply points for construction, a GL2 base requires 15 supply
ENGINEER CENTURIES
new controlling player.
points, and a GL3 base requires 50 supply points. These supplies
do not have to come from any one source, but can be drawn from
NON-GRAV FORCES
Legions are equipped with two types of Engineer Centuries.
any friendly base or headquarters unit that can trace a valid line
Combat Engineer Centuries havc grav engineering vehicles, able
of communication to the constructing Task Force.
Militia Regiments, Garrison Legions, and Marine Cohorts
to engage in combat. For each Cornbat Engineer Century present
have no grav capability. Thercforc, these uniis have limitcd
in a Task Force, the player can apply a modifier of -1 to the saving
CONSTRUCTION COST TABLE
combat ahilities. Non-gray units can he attached to a Task Force.
roll of one of the Task Force's combat unis. This modifier cannot
Base
Number of
Supply Cost
or ihey can operate independently. If the unit is operating inde-
be applied to a support unit. No combat unit's saving roll target
Type
Construction Centuries
pendently, use the unit counter itself, not a Task Force counter, to
number can be reduced by more than one.
GL1
mark their location on the tmap. A not-grav unit that is operating
The second type of Engineer Century is the Construction
GL2
15
apart from any gray units has no zonc of control.
Engineer Century. These tnits construct bases using supplies and
GL3
50
Non-grav forces can move no more than one hex per lurn.
prefabricated building modules (see the Campaign Game).
GL4
100
whether attaeking, defending, nr disrupted. They cannot move
During the course of the scenario, additional bases will be made

--- PAGE 18 [OCR] ---
RUUES
SPACE
GAME
with Zonc 1 bcing ahoul .25 AUs wide. It would tuke tine beyond
In the spare gatne, Prefert players vie tor contrul of a
SYSTEM MAP
the scope of this ganc just to iravel from one sector to another in
planetary system, conducl raids against orbital hases, and land
The system map represenis the world's solar systerm and is
nornal space, and so slarships make small T-space "mini-nops
lroops on enemy-controlled planets. Control of local space is
used to regulate the movemcal of starships within the sysien.
to travel hetween seclors.
necessary for a successful planetary invasion.
This map is divided into eleven orbital zones. The sun axcupies
Most of thc seclors arc empty, hut some contain plancis,
Zone 0. Zones I-7 are divided into numbered sectors, This
asleruids, or space installations thal give thc sector economic or
COMPONENTS
breakdown allows each of the sectors to be localed quickly if the
military significance. These natural hodies and man-made instai-
orbital zone and sector number is known. For cxample, if an
lations are targets for thc opposing players to capture or destroy.
The space game is played on a map fepresenting the
orhital base is located in the tenth sector of the sccond orbital
Counlers representing these bodies arc placed on thc map al the
Africannus star system and its major hahitable planet, Ku
zone, its location would be written as (2,10).
start of the gamc.
Crassus. Counters represent Task Forces. starships, Fighter
The sizc of the zones and sectors is ahstracted. because their
The Turn Record Track is aiso tocated on the system map.
Flighis. planelary bodics. and arc used on various record sheets
actual size in norma! space has little tacticat impact on military
This record track shows time passing and wher reinforcements
and charts.
operations. Each zone is twice the width of the previous zone.
witl arrive. Each box represents twcivc hours.
T'he systcn map alsu contains the Breakthrough/Counterat-
tack Track, which is used to keep track of the number of break-
SFTORCETHART
Ihrughs and counieraltacks thc player achicved during the tum.
12134
DE.t.P sP.'E. EVT'FRE'r.PIIA
SIHBI!
1PHFP1
SECIOR COMBAT CHART
EEP SPACE INTERCEPTION
GRBIT
ORBT
RBIT
ORBIT
NF:MENT
NEIMEN'T
SEGMENT
SEMENT
NAFAI.NEI'HN.E F HI.AY
Zone
Zore 3
ATTST'KA1.NPAEF YMFMFA1 PHANE
ATT.'KIAIISTEMMIIYFMI.NT PHISF
10
ORBIT
ATTA'KHRSPEI'T.EMBATPHA
(RHIT
URBIT
ORBIT
RBIT
DEFESDERTSPACEMOHEHENEPII&SE:
SE;MENT
SEMENT
SEMFNT
NFMENT
SEHMENT
DFFEADERA'MMEFMETPH
FFEALERSPACFCIMRETPIIASF
TSNKHACF.AIE STMIT PIA
10
12
HPPLPHASF
TENIAPH&SF
13
14
CAMPARN SFQL.FAE'FTHF PI.AY
15
Serter Comnbat Chart
A Sccior tonhat Chart uppears  ihe syslem map. During
the tombat portion of the space game, the players allxcate forccs
HItMIRT PHANF
on this chart to defend and attack specific bases in a contested
18
19
sector.
19

--- PAGE 19 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
Outsystem Area
RECORD SHEETS
The outsystern area represents secure friendty bases, located
Each player will use record shcets to track the location and
EN
ORBITAL FOACE ALLQCATICN CHART
in nearby friendly systems, lt is uscd to keep track of naval forces
status of his individual naval forces and the current levei of supply
ORBT SEGOABIT SEG
OABIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORIIT sEQ
currently operating from bases in nearby interstellar space. One
at each of his bases or on board his transports. These record sheets
holding box is for destroyed forces, and the other holding box is
should be kept hidden from the opposing player.
for functional naval forces nol currently assigncd lo an outsy stem
QRBIT SEG
ORBT SEG
ORBT SEG
QRBIT SEG
OAEIT SEg
Task Force. No combat may takc pluce in thec outsystem areas.
Naval Task Force Record Sheet
10
Each player has one Task Force Record Sheet. The Task
T-space Travef Time Trark
Force Record Sheet is used in much the same way as the Legior
This track is uscd to indicate how long a Task Force has been
Auxilia Record Sheet. The naval forces assigned lo the Task
ORBITAL FORCE ALLOCATON GHAAT
TRAVERSE
traveling in T-space before it arrives on the syslem map. The more
Force are placed in the Task Force's holding box, rather than on
OABIT SEG
QABIT SEg
aBit seg
time a Task Force spends in T-space while traveling to a system,
ORBIT SEG
the system map. Mission chits are also placed in a Task Force's
the less chance there is that it will be delected before it artives.
holding box to show that a combat mission was assigned to the
Each box contains two numbers. The larger number indi-
Task Farce for the tum.
cates the number of tums the Task Force has spen1 in T-space. The
If a Task Force is assigned a sector defense mission for the
second number is the modifier to be used when the defending
turn, the naval forces are placed on the Orbital Force Ailocation
player makes a T-space detection roll for that Task Force.
Sheet, for the appropriate planet or planetoid, rather than being
Individual starships and Fighter Flights of any Task Force
placed in the Task Force Holding Box.
Supply Record Track
assigned to a seclor and given a sector defense mission are
The Naval Task Force Record Sheet has three other record
This track provides a current count of the level of supply
allocated to the individual orbital segments at the owning player's
tracks: the Outsystem Area Chart, the T-space Travel Time
each base and transport ship possesses. Each base r transpor's
discretion, rather than being placed in their Task Force Holding
Track, and the Supply Record Track.
supply counter is placed on this track io indicate the current
Box on the Task Force Record Sheet.
amount of supply. The counter is moved up or down the track as
Somc installations are located in system sectors that do not
the supply is increased or consumed.
contain a planetary body. These installalions do not require a
separate Orbital Force Allocation Chart because they are consid-
Orbital Force Allocation Chart
cred to occupy a single orbital segment.
The Orbital Force Allocation Chart is used to indicate the
If an orbital zone is designated as an asteroid belt, each orbital
exact location of orbital instailations, and the forces allxcated to
sector in that zone has four orbital segmcnts. Several blank Orbital
11
defend those installations and the planei hlow. Fach plenel or
Force Allocation Charts are provided for these areas. The sector
planetoid in the system has is own Orbital Force A llhxation hart.
numbcr corresponding to each chart needs to be carefully noted.
which is divided into a nusnber of orbital segrments depending on
COUNTERS
the size of the planet below. The Orbital Force Allexcation Chart for
a planet-sized body has ten orbital segments. The Orbital Force
The space game includes S40 counters, divided into three
Allocation Char1 for a planetoid has four orbilal segments.
categories: counters representing naval units and space bases;
15
17
Installations orbiting the planetary body are placed in an
orbital segment for the duration of the game. All orbital segments
around Africannus; and information counters, used to denote the
must contain one insiallation before a segmenl can have two
status of units, levels of supply, and so on. Separate the counters
instahations; all orbital segments must contain two installations
and sort them according to category and color.
13
100
before any one segment can have three installations. and so on.
Red counters are units or bases controlled by the TOG
104
104
111
101
113
player. Blue counters represent a unit or base controlled by the
Renegade/Commonwealth player.
20

--- PAGE 20 [OCR] ---
RUES
ON
Fighters
Task Forces
Naval Base
Fighter counters represent a Flight ot inierceptors, twenty-
Each miliary is given twenty numbered Task Force
Naval bases are permanent site'
four fightcr spacecraft with no interstellar capahiliics. Each
counters. These couniers arc used to indicalc the general location
thal provide supporl lo naval opera
Fighter Flight has an attack, defense, Sig/EsM, and thrusl rating.
2 4 -3
on the system riap of the forces assigned to the Task Force. Only
tions. Most of these bases are located i.
The ciass of fighter that the counter represents is defined by
active Task Forces (Task Forces including at least one naval unit)
ear-orbit around a planet, bul smalier bases may rest on th.
the following letter codes: Fl1-Lighi Fighters Type 1, FL2--
may be placed on the system map.
surfate of the planet. Bases are categorized inlu six classes: Q
Light Fighters Type 2, FMt-Medium Fighters T'ype ! , FM2-
GN1. O/GN2. 0/GN3. O/GN4. 0/GN5. and O/GN6. An *0
Medium Fighters Type 2, FH1-Heavy Fighters T'ypc I. FH2-
Starships
designation indicates that the base is in orbit, and *G" indicate
Heavy Fighters Type 2.
Starships are the massive, spacefaring vessels thal vie for
that the hase is located on a major planetary boxdy in the systeni
control of space and transport ground troops to a planet's surface.
13
Carrier, Cruiser, and Battleship counters Tepresent a single shipof
FH1
Rating
FM1
Type
Flt
10
Name
that elass. Patrol and Defense Squadron counters represent a force
Oasis Class Post
0/GN1
0:1
0:1
of six to scven frigates, destroyers, and patrol ships.
Small Ship Post
ZND/O
Each counter provides a silhouctte of the ship type, a letter
Medium Fighter Base
Heavy
Mediurm
0/gn3
Light
code distinguishing the vessel or Squadron type, and an identifi-
Medium Ship Basc
0/GN4
cation number. All starships have an attack, defense and Sig/ESM
Fighter Wing Command
0/GN5*
Flight counlers showing a colored bar are part of an lndepen
value that is analogous to the same values used by the planetary
Large Ship Base
0/GN6*
dent Fighter Wing and have corganic carriers. These Flights are
combat units. All ship counters inctude a fighter transport rating
*For use with Conversion rulcs. p, 4l.
capable of interstellar movement and do nol need to be assigncd
representing the number of Fightcr Flights that may be caried by
to a starship in order to move from sector lo scctor.
thal unit, anci a thrusl rating for the ship.
Supply
TRL6
Transports carry cargo instead of fighters, and so the Fighter
FM1
Each base and Transport Squat
Transport rating represents the number of supply points the vessel
ron uses a Supply counter to keep trac
100
can carry.
of its curteril level of supply on tl.
Supply Record Track.
QF FIGHTEAS
Planets and Planetuids
Thcse counters are: placcd on the
Mission
Ihc missiun counlcrs define thc fullowing types of missiot
PSD
THRUST
UN:T tYPE.
sysierm nlup to rcpresen the current k-
k : CRA5.15
cation of planetiury houties orhiling
thu u Task Force may he issigncd. See Mission Assignments. I
Alricannus.
3, If iissium tlescriptions.
ATTACK VALUE
SIGIESM VALUE
Asteroid Belt
DEFENSE VALLE
Asteroid Belt counters are placed on the system
GROUNO
map to indicate that an entire orbital zone is an
RECON
HS ATTACK
SUPPORT
ATTACK
asteroid belt. The Africannus system has lwo aster-
The class of ship that the countcr reprcsenis is defined by thc
Reto
S Atak
Ground Suppo
oid belts. mne in Zone 1 and one in Zone 7.
following letler coxdes: BR--Battleship, CA--Cruiser. FG-
Frigate, P Sqd-Pursuit Squadron, D Sqd-Defense Squadron.
Fatigue
FGV-Carier Frigate Class, DDV-_Carrier Destroyer Class.
FATIGUE
The Fatigue counteris pkiced on the Task Force
TRLLight Transport Squadron, TRM--Medium Transport
SECTOR
ORBITAL
Holding Box lo indicale that a unit is faligued. Therc
WITHORAWAL
SUPPLY
DROP
DEFENSE
Squadron.
are three fatigue levels.
Sertor Defense
Orhital Drop
Sppty
Wirhdrawai

--- PAGE 21 [OCR] ---
PREFECL
GAME SET-UP
PLAYING THE GAME
In Prefect's space game, one player controls the TOG naval
The space game of Prefect is played in a number of tur
forces, ard the other controls the Reregade/Commonwealth naval
deternined by the scenario. During the course of a single turm t
forces. New players may find it helpful lo begin by selecting the
players will move their Task Forces, attack enemy forces, a
Holding the Line scenario, p. 2 in the scenarios bcok. Experienced
attempt to decisively defeat the enemy.
players may design their own scenario. (See Scenario Design, P.
When onc sequcnce of play has been completed, the Tu
47.) To begin, the players set up the planets and plaretoids on the
counier on the Turn Record Track should be advanced one spa
Ku Crassus system map according to the zone/sector coordinates
Tme players then repeat the sequence of play.
provided.
Each scenario lists the forces available to cach player, and
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
indicates the forces' location in the systerm by zone/sector coor-
The space gamne folfows a sequence of play similar to l
dinates. The scenario may indicate thal the forces are currently
scqucncc of play of the planetary gane. The Attacker for the fi
out-of-syslem.
lurn is usually specified by the scenario. If not, each player ro
The players next place their naval bases in orbital scgrmernts
a die. The player with the highest result atacks first. P!
on their Sector Combat Chart for the appropriate planet. The
continues until one player's victory conditions are mnet or untilt
players may place an orbital base in any of the orbital segments,
number of iurns specified in the scenario has been reached.
but all segments must have one base before any orbilal segment
Each turn is divided into the following phases. The Attack
can receive a second orbital base. The initial orbital segment
for each successive tun is deterrnined during the Tempo Phase
location for the ground bases is defined by the scenario.
the cnd of the previous tura.
Bases may also be placed in sectors without planets. In this
case, the bases are placed directly on the map.
Mission Assignment Phase
Bases placed in sectors within asteroid belt orbital zones are
At the beginning of each turn, both the Attacking al
placed on the players' Asteroid Force Allocation Sheets, atid the
Defending player assigns new missions to al Task Forces in t?
rmber of their sector indicated.
outsysiem area or on the system map. Task Forces on the T-spa
Finally, each player allocates all his naval forces to his Naval
Travel Time Track may not be assigned new missions.
Task Force Record Sheet. Each unit must be assigned to a Task
Force. Each Task Force is then placed in a system sector and
Attacker T'-space Movement Phase
assigned a mission, by placing a mission chit in the Task Force
The Attacker firsl advances all Fask Forces on the T-spa.
Holding Box, The scenario normally dictates which player places
his Task Forces on the map first.
(outsystem area may be placed or the track's zero box.
The naval units of Task Forces assigned a sector defense
The Attacker next announces which of his Task Forces t
mission in a sector with a planet or plaretoid may be placed in one,
the T-space Travel Time Track are going to move ontothe syste
some, or all of the orbital segments for the planet, pianetoid, or
map this tum. The Defending playcr makes a T-space detectit
INuis ]
asteroid belt.
attempt for each incoming Task Force. The Attacker must plau
More than one friendly Task Force can be in the same system
all rletected Task Forces on a sector of the system map.
sector, but only one Task Force per system sector cun be assigned
The Defending player may now reassign any starships, ai
a sector defense mission.
their attendant Fighter Flights, to any of his Task Forces with
The Task Force Record Sheets and the Orbital Force Allo.
sector defense mission.
calion Charts should be kept hidden from the opposing pllyer.
Finally, all the Attacking player's incoming Task Forc.
that were not detecled are placed on any sector on the'systemma

--- PAGE 22 [OCR] ---
RULES
ATTACK
Task Force Adjustment Phase
Attacker Insystem Movernent Phase
Both players may teassign naval units on the system map to
Task Forces assigned an attack inission make low-speed
The Attacker oves any Task Force that began the turn
attacks against orbital bases or enemy naval forces, making
any friendly Task Force, and form new Task Forces.
insystem to any sector on the system tmap.
Players must form all friendly disrupted unils in a scctor inio
trultipie firing runs.
one new Task Force. This Task Force tnust be given a withdrawal
Task Forces with this mission make norrmal combat attacks
Attacker Space Combat Phase
mission at the start of the next tum.
Task Forces in the same sector may now conduct combat.
The Attacking player determines the order in which thc altacks
Supply Phase
HS ATTACK
are resolved. Each Attacking Task Force must allocate the forces
Task Forces in a seclor with a friendly base may remove
it will use to accomplish the mission. The Defending player then
High specd (HS) attacks have the same goal as standard
Fatigue counlers or reorganize disrupted unis by expending
attack missions. hut are made at such high relative speeds that
attenpts to detect the incoming force and may intercept it, and
supply points during the Supply Phase.
opposing forces can make only one firing pass before they fly out
resolves any combat.
Task Forces with supply missions can load or unload supply,
Task Forccs involved in combat are assigned Dne fatigue
of range of ne another.
ard destroyed units in the outsystem area may be rehuilt.
Task Forces with this mission tnay make atacks against any
level.
enemy forces or bases in their system sector. Hwever, both
Tempo Phase
Attacker and Defender must add a +2 modifier to the target
Defender T-space Movemert Phase
If the cutent Attacker has deslroyed more enemy unils than
The Defender advances all Task Forces on the T-space
numher of any saving rolls. An additional -3 modifier is applied
he has lost in this turn, he will be the Attacker again next turn. If
Travel Time Track one box. Then any Task Force in the
lo the targct nurnber for N-space delection rolls.
the Attacker has lost more unis than he destroyed, the curren1
outsystem area rmay be placed on the lrack's zero box.
Defender will he the Altacker next lurn. Thc sequence of play
The Defender then announces which of his Task Forces on
RECON
the T-space Travel Time Track will move onto the system map
ends when the playcrs advance the iurn counter one box and move
Task Forces assigned a recon mission altempl to determine
this turn. The Attacker makes a T-space detection attempt for
their Breakthrough/Courterattack counters to zero on the Break-
the location and composition of enemy forces in a system sector.
through/Counterattack Track. The next turn bcgins with a new
each incoming Task Force. Thc Defender must place all delected
A -3 m(xdifier is applied to the target number of N-space detection
Mission Assiginent Phasc.
Task Forces on a sector of the syslem map.
rslls made against a 'Task Force on a recon mission.
The Attacking playcr may now rcassign any starships, and
MISSION ASSIGNMENTS
theit altendant Fighter Flighis, to any Task Forces with a sector
SFCTOR DEFENSE
defense mission.
Task Forces with this mission must defend an orbital scg-
Finally, the incoming Defender Task Forces that were no
At the start of the sequencc of play. pliayers shouid assign
ment against enciy inirusion inlo thcir seclor, or make an attack
deiected are placed in any sector on the system map.
each Task Force a mission for thal tum hy placing a Mission
against withdrawing encmy Task Forces in the sector. Only Task
counter in the Task Force Hoiding Box for tach active Task
Forces insystem can be assigned this mission, and only one
Defender Insysterm Moverren1 Phase
Force. During the course of the lurn, a Task Force nay only
friendly Task Force in a system sector can have a sector defense
The Defender may move any insystem Task Force that dnes
perform its assigned mission. Mission assignments are designed
mission.
noi have a defense mission to any sectof on the system map.
lo give a Task Force various advantages and disadvaniuges in
Forccs given a seclor defense mission are allocated to the
combat.
orbital segments of the Orbital Force Allocation Chart, rather
Defender Space Combat Phase
Only one mission may he assigned to a Tusk Force per turn.
than the Task Force Hoiding Box on the Task Force Record Sheet,
Task Forces in the same sector may now conduct comhat.
A Task Force may receive a tew inission only at the slari of thc
for the planel or planetoid in the seclur. These forces are used to
The Defending playcr delermines the order in which the alltack:
scquence of piay.
defend the various orbital segmenis againsl any enemy forces in
are resolved.
Task Forees curtently on the T-space I'ravel Time Track
the sector.
The Attacking player then attempts to delect the inconing
may not be assigned new missions. A Task Force in transit may
These forces muy also he used to intercept incoming enemy
force and may intercept it, and resolves any combal.
only be given a new mission assignneni alter it has accomplished
Task Forces helore the attacking farces are allocated to an orhital
Task Forces involved in combat are assigned onc fatigue
or failcd al is curreni mission.
Negent, and may attack withdrawing Task Forccs.
Ievel.
Task Forces that include Transport Squadrons may not be
snigned sector uefense niissions.
23

--- PAGE 23 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
SUPPLY
MOVEMENT PHASE
A Task Force may not rnove if the number of Fighter Flight
Supply missions are altempls lo [ransfer supplies ant/ot
assigned to it exceeds irs total Fighter Transport capability
troops to a friendly base. If the Task Force is intercepted on a
Players rmay voluntarily destroy excess Flights in order to movi
In the space gamc. naval forces accomplish inter- and
supply mission, the forces of the Task Force are noved to any
thc Task Force. These destroyed Flighis are available for rcbuild
inlrastellat movement using T-space juinps. rather than traveling
orbital segtnenl in the sectot.
ing (see Supply, p. 32).
those distances in nomal (rational) space. Players move their
Any unis in a Task Force with a supply inissiun nol
Note that piayers may reassign Fighter Flights during tht
Task Forces during the appropriate T-space and Insystem Move-
disrupted or destroyed by attacks from enetrry forces wiih a serlut
'Task Force Adjustment Phasc to any friendly Task Force on th.
ment Phases. During the T-space Movcmct Phasc. all incoming
defense missionl may transfer the remaining supply points or
system map without reassigning sufficient starships to mov!
Task Forccs are moved, one at a time, to a sector of the systcm
iransported ground forces to any friendly base in thc orbital
them, It is assutred that the starships are shuttling the fighters tt
map. The opposing player has an opportunity to detect the
segment. Atacking enemy forces add a +2 modifier to their
theit new operating sector and then returning to threir parent Task
incorning forces and transfer ships helween Iriendly Task Forces
saving roll target numbers wher making atacks against a Task
Force. Any Fighter Flights assigned to Task Forces in the
assignet a sector defense mission.
Force with a supply mission.
outsyslem area also may be freely exchanged. Flights may not bx
The lnsystem Movement Phase lakes place afier ithe T-space
exchanged bctween friendly Task Forces on the T-space Trave
Movement Phase is finished. The player whose Moverment Phase
WITHDRAWAL
Time Track.
it is (the phasing player) moves any Task Forces that began the
Task Forces with a withdrawal rnission arc scheduled to be
When reacting lo enemy T-space movement (see T-spac
turn insystem to any other system scector, or to the outsystem area
moved outsystemn or to an insystem sector containing a friendly base.
Detection). any reassigned fighiers must be accompanicd by :
if the Task Force is assigncd a withdrawal imission.
Attacking enemy forces add a +2 modifier to their saving roll
number of starships whose total Fighier Transport capacit?
A Task Force's movement is never hampered by thc pres.
targel numher whcn making attacks against a Task Force on a
equais or exceeds the number of fighters lo be transferred.
ence of disrupted units or existing faligue levels.
withdrawal mission.
For example,  TOG Task Force has a batle-
FIGHTER FLIGHT TRANSPORTATION
GROUND SUPPORT
ship, a Pursuit Squadron, two Independent Fighter
All starships are capablc of using T-space movement, and so
Forces with a ground support mission must attack enemy
Flights and eleven normal Fighter Flights. The battle-
can move freely hetween system seclors and between the system
ship and Pursuit Squadron are capable of lifting 6
ground forces or ground bases. If the forces of ihe altacking Task
niap and the outsystetn area. Fighters that belong to an Indepen.
Force are interccpted, they are movcd to any orbital segment in
and 4 Flights, respectively. If the player wishes to
dent Fighter Wing have organic Pafrof Class catriers, which
the sector.
move this Task Force this rurn to another system
allews them to movc freely betwccn sysiem scclors ant helwcen
If the Task Force survives allarks from enemy forces lg-
sector or to the outsystem area, one Fighter Flight
the syslem map and the outsystem area.
signed a sector defense mission, they may be used 1o supporl
must be destroyed. Note that the two [rdependent
Non-independeni Fighter Flighis are not capable of operat-
ground forces in thc orbital segment. Any altacking cncmy forces
Fighter Flights did not require space on the starships
ing in T-space. They must be carriedun a starship in ordertoinove
add a +2 modifier to the saving roil target number when making
to move with the force.
oul uf their currenl system sector or heyond thc oulsyster area.
altacks against a Task Force on a ground support mission.
Each type of starship is capable of transporting a certain
I-SPACE MOVEMENT
number of Fighter Flights. A Task Force can only move with a
ORBITAL DROP
T-space movernent causes a light year's-sized wave-froni
number of Fighler Flights eyual lo ihe lulal Iransporl rating of tne
An orhital drop mission requires Task Forces lo attempt to
distortion in T-space which can be detected by special T-Doppler
starships assigncd 10 it.
land troops on an enemy base or planet. If the landing forces are
sensors. The sizc of this wave front bears a direcl relationship to
intercepted, the Task Force's remaining forces are moved to any
For example, a TOG Task Force consisting of a
the speed of travel. Stow speed creates a small wave, while high
orbital segmeni in the sector.
Defense Squadron with a Fighter Transport Rating of
speed creales a very large wave front. Most vessels travel slowly
Any units in this Task Force that are nol disrupicd or
4, and α Pursuit Squadron with a Fighter Transport
toward their destination until their wave frort falls just shorofthe
destroyed by attacks from enemy forces assigned a sector defense
Rating of 5 may transport 9 Flights af fighters. If a
system. Then thcy enter the system in a high-speed T-space jump.
mission may transfer ground forces to any hex in the appropriate
TOG Frigate Class carrier was added to the Task
giving T-Doppler slations in the arival system only seconds ol
orbital segment. Supply points may also be ransferred dircctly to
Force, the Task Force could transport an additional
waming. Incoming cnemy Task Forces are most often detected by
any Lcgion or Auxilia headuarters. Any attacking enemy forces
15 Flights, for α total of 24 Fighter Flights.
picket ships stationed numerous light years distant from the targei
add a +2 modifier to the saving roll target number when making
system, which may delect the incoming fleet as it rmakes its slower
altacks against a Task Force assigncd an orbilal drop mission.
approach 1o the edge of the system. The more slowly a fleet

--- PAGE 24 [OCR] ---
RULES
For example, a Task Force consisting of an
Independent Fighter Flight with a Sig of O, a Pursuit
Squadron with a Sig of 1, and transporting four
additional Fighter Flights and a Defense Squadron
with a Sig of 2 has spent five turns in T-space, giving
the Task Force a +1 T-space travel time modifier. if
the player decides to exit T-space this turn and enter
the system map, the opposing player must roll a 4 or
less to detect the incoming Task Force [0 + 1 + 2 + 1
= 4). Note that the Sig of the Fighter Flights was not
added to the total value for the T-space Detection
aempt.
Players may not use a Sig value higher than the Task Force's
actual tolal Sig value.
T-SPACE TRA VEL TIME DETECTION
Turns
Modifier
in T-space
0-1
+3
2-3
+2
NUNIS92]
415
+1
6-7
8-9
Table, below) for the current Task Force. Then the owning player
approaches a system, the less likely it is that it will be detecled.
10-11
announccs the total Sig value for the Task Force, and thc T'-space
These "picket" detection stations are controiled by the theater
12+
-3
Time modifier. The Sig values of transported Fighter Flights are
commander rather than the system commander, and so 'F-space
not added to the total Sig value, but the Sig values of Independent
delection.of an incoming Task Force is handled abstractly.
Fighter Flights are added to the total value.
At the start of the player's T-space Movement Phase, al!
Detection Reaction
When the opposing player knows the incoming Task Force's
Task Forces on the T-space Travel T'ime Track are advanced one
After all the delected Task Forces have been placed on the
1otal Sig rating, he can attermpt to delect that Task Force. If the
box. The player may then move Task Forces that ended their last
system map, the opposing player may reassign naval units be-
opposing player rolls a number equal 1o or less than the incoming
tum in the outsystem area to the zero box of the time track.
tween insystem Task Forces which have a sector defense mission
force's Sig rating, then that Task Force has been detected.
Next, the player designales which Task Forces on the T-space
for thai tum. Non-independent Fighter Flights may be tranisferred
Detccted Task Forces are placed immediately on the system map
Travel Time Track will exit T-space and appear on the sysiem map.
to other sector defensc Task Forces, hut sufficient starships must
in the scctor of the owning player's choice. If the die roil result is
ly
atso be transferred to provide transport for the fighters.
grealer than the total Sig rating, then the Task Force remains
T-space Detection
ne
After the opposing player completes all insystem transfers,
undetected. The opposing player may attempt to detect the next
Before an incoming Task Force is placed on the system map,
the owning player places the undetected incoming Task Forces on
incoming Task Force.
of
any seclor of thc system map.
If the player attempling to tletect the incoming Task Force
by
Force. To determine the lotal Sig rating for each inconing Task
has a die roll result of 1, the Task Force was detected, regardless
get
Force, the owning player totals the Sig ratings of the Task Force's
of the total Sig value. A die roil resull of 1(! means that the Task
er
starships and Independent Fighter Flights and adds the T-space
Furce was nol delected.
Time modifier (found on the T-space Travei Timnc Detection
25

--- PAGE 25 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
The TOG Task Force in the above example has
STACKING
SPACE COMBAT PHASE
entered the New Mandella sector, which contains α
An unlimited number of friendly and enemy Task Farccs
Renegade Task Force with a sector defense mission.
may occupy a single system seclor.
Though space is vast cnough that two starships need nevel
The Renegade player decides that the Sig of the TOG
Orbital segments may only contain friendly units at the end
meet, combat docs occur. Localions with strategic importarce
Task Force indicated a large force, one that might be
of the tum, See Opposing Sector Defenses. p. 32.
within a star system draw both attackers and defenders. Ships
too big for the current forces stationed in that sector
Orbital bases must be allocated to a single orbital scgment,
engage in maneuvers, attempting to get the best shot at optimur
to handle. He elects to transfer a cruiser, a Defense
and may not be tmoved for the duration of the game. Each segment
range wihout being destroyed in the process. Fighters swam
Squadron and five Flights of fighters from α Task
can contain an unlimited number of hases. However, all segments
around the giant capital ships as broadsides, missiles, and hyper
Force with a defense mission in orbit over Ku Crassus
must contain one base before any scgmcnt can have lwo bases
velocity stugs from spinal-mount mass drivers tear through space
to the threatened sector. Those forces are moved
assigned to i, and so on. If a base is destroyed in the course of the
Two Space Combat Phases occur in each tum, one immedi
from their current orbital force allocation segments
game, the owning player dces not have lo reassign his bases to
ately following the Attackcr's Insystem Movement Phase ar
over Ku Crassus to any of the segments for New
new orbital segnents, but new orbilal bases must be lxcaled
One immediately following the Defender's Insystem Movemen'
Mardella.
according to the above rules.
Phase. The basic combat procedures are the same for both sides
An unlimited number of ground bases can bc lecated in an
The player whose phase it is must resolve the missions of all of hi:
INSYSTEM MOVEMENT
orbital segment, See Ground Bases. p. 34.
Task Forecs in thal phase, except for Task Forces assigned ti
After the phasing player has moved all his incoming Task
scctor defense or withdrawal.
Forces into the system, friendly Task Forces already insystem may
The Aitacker during the Attacker Space Conbat Phase, ant
For example, the Orbital Force Allocation Chart
move. The player may move any Task Force to any seclor of the
the Defender during the Defender'Space Comhat Phase, gets tt
for the planetoid Sizzle Stone shows four orbitat
system map, except thiose Task Forces with a sector defense
chcose the sector and the orter in which the missions of his Tash
segmenis. If five orbital and wo ground bases were
mission.
Forces in that sector are resolved. The phasing player selecis :
The opposing piayer does not have an opportunily to detect
available to be placed on Sizzle Stone, one of its
sector, then selects one of his Task Forces in that sector ant
orbital segments would have two orbital bases, and
or react to insystem moveiments.
resolves its mission. He then selects the ntext Task Force in thal
the remaining three would have a single orbital base
After the Renegade player reacts to the TOG
sector, resolvcs its missiort, and so on, until the missions of all his
each. The ground base location is usually defined by
Task Force that appeared in the New Mandella
Task Furces, except for those with a sector deferse ar withdrawal
the scenario, and both ground bases may be in the
sector, the TOG player moves hree Task Forces in
mission. have been resolved.
same orbital segment.
the Traverse sector to the Ku Crassus sector. The
Renegade player cannot react to this move.
Withdrawal
Withdrawal is a special type of insyslem movement. A Task
Force with a withdrawal mission must movc to a fricndly
insystem base or to the outsystem area.
If the player decides to move the Task Force lo the outsystem
area, the units of the Task Force are simply removed from the
Task Force Holding Box and placed in thc QOutsystem Area
Functional Naval Unit Box.
If the Task Force is withdrawn toa friendly insystem base, and
no eneriy Task Forces with a sector defensc mission are statisned
in that sector, the Task Force has acconplished its mission.
If the sector contains an enemy Task Force with a sector
defense mission, the withdrawing Task Force is subject to detec-
tion and interception while moving toward the base. See Cambat,
uJisa
this pagc.
26

--- PAGE 26 [OCR] ---
RULES-
The Mediurm and Heavy TOG Fighter Flights in
Subtract -3 from the base target number if the attacking force
In general, nission resolution in a sector takes place in three
the above example have Thrusts of 7 and 6, respec"
steps: the opposing player's detection atteimpt, deep-space inter-
is making a high speed attack or performing a recon rmission.
tively. The Renegade player can commit any part of
The opposing player then ro!ls the dice. If the dic roil resuit
ception combat, and mission resolution, which may involyve
his Sector Defense Task Force with a Thrust of 6 or
is equal to or less than the base target number for deleclion, thc
combat between opposing forces in an orbital segment. Resoly-
more to the intercept attempt. Because the Renegade
ing the mission of Task Forces with specialized missions, such as
atackirg force has been detected, Rermember thal a rol! of 1 is
Force's light fighters have a Thrust of 10, and its
always a success, and a roll of 1n is always a failure.
recon, ground support, supply, orbital drop, or withdrawal. may
medium fighters have a Thrust of 6, all the Renegade
include additional events which (ccur after these three stcps.
A TOG Task Force is making a high speed
fighters may be committed to the batle. The cruiser,
Even if 1wo opposing Task Forces are in the same system
with a Thrust of 3, cannot be used. The Renegade
attack in the New Mandella sector, The Task Force
sector, combat will usually occur only if one of the forces is
consists of a Pursuit Squadron (Sig 1), Defense
player elects to use all of his fighters against the
assigned a sector defense mission. Otherwise, the forces gener-
incoming TOG force, leaving the cruiser in the
Squadron (Sig 2), wo Medium Fighter Flights (Sig
ally keep out of each other's way and concentrate on accomplish-
0), three Heavy Fighter Flights (Sig O, and two
segment with the orbital base.
ing their assigned objectives.
Independent Fighter Flights [Sig O]. A Renegade
Force consisting of a cruiser (ESM 5), three Light
Before the forces can engage in combat, the phasing player
N-SPACE DETECTION
Fighter Flights (ESM 11, two Medium Fighter Flights
must determine if his forces detect the incoming intercepting
Any Task Force resolving its mission in a sector occupied by
[ESM 1] and'an ON1 orbital station (ESM 2] also
forces. The phasing player adds the lotal ESM value of his
an enemy Task Force with a system defense mission may be
occupy the sector.
incoming forces to the Sig value of the intercepting forces for the
detected in norrnal space (N-space). If the Task Force is detected
The TOG player decides to commit only the
base target number for the detection attempt. The Sig values of the
in normal space, the opposing player may attempt to intercept the
fighters to the attack. The TOG Sig value is 0 (all
opposing player's forces not actually being used for the intercep-
Task Force before it reaches its target. If the phasing force
fighters have a Sig of Oj. The Renegade player has
tion are not added to detemmine the basc target number, even if
remains undetected, it can make a Combat Results Table column
an ESM factor of 12 (5+ 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 2 = 12].
those forces were used to make the N-space detection of the
shiff when attacking enemy forces in ius destination orbial
The Base Target Number for N-space detection is 12.
phasing player's forces.
scgment.
However, because the TOG force is making a high
If the phasing player's Task Force is executing a recon.
The TOG force af two Medium Fighter Flights
speed altack, a modifier of -3 is opplied to the Base
altack or Hs attack, the player must decide what portioti of the
[ESM 1] and two Heavy Fighter Flights (ESM 1] have
Target Number, making it 9. The Renegade player
unit will attempt the mission before an N-space detection attempt
α total ESM factor of 4. The intercepting Renegade
needs to roll a 9 or less lo detect the altacking force
is made. The phasing player can assign none, parl, or all of the
highters all have Sig values af 0. The TOG force must
in N-space.
Task Force's starships and or fighters to the mission. Any ships
roll a 4 or less to detect the intercepting fighters.
or fighters that are not to be used in the combat renain on the Task
DEEP SPACE INTERCEPTION
Force Record Sheet, and cannot be attacked or used for combat in
Once all forces have been conmitted and all detectio
If the phasing player's forces are detected in N-space, the
the current turn, The ships and fighters to be used are placed on
attempts made, combat is resolved. Phasing player forces that
the Deep Space Interception Box of the Sector Combat Chart. 1f
opposing player can send forces with a sector defense mission
survive deep space inlerception are then moved to their target
from the Task Force in the sector to engage the oncoming
the Task Force is executing any mission other than a recon, attack
orbital segment. Surviving opposing forces are moved to their
(phasing player's) force before it rcaches its target. The incoming
or HS attack, the entire Task Force must be deployed on the Deep
appropriate Task Force Holding Box on the player's Task Force
force must be detected in N-space in order for the npposing forces
Space Interception Box.
Record Sheet.
The opposing player adds the total of the ESM values of all
to make a deep space interception.
Only naval units with a thrust equal to or greater than the
the units in a Task Force with a sector defense tmission to the EsM
COMBAT RESOLUTION
lowest thrust of the incoming unit may he sent lo intercept
value of any friendly orbital bases in the sector and announces the
Space combat is resolved in much the samc way as ground
incoming forces. Forces sent to iniercept an incoming force may
lotal ESM value for the deteclion attempt. The phasing player.
combat. Players first determine the combat ratio. Then any
not make N-space detection atempts or engage in any other
controlling the attacking Task Force, adds together the Sig value
column shifts availtable as a result of the Attacking force remain-
of the attacking units in that Task Force and announces the total
combat for the rest of the tum, Once the deep space interception
has becn resolved. the intercepting player's forces should be
ing undetecled are applied. Finally, the Atacking player rolls the
Sig value. The total of the ESM and Sig values deternines the
moved back to the appropriale Task Force Holding Box of the
die and consults the Combat Results Table below [odetermine the
base target number for detection.
results of the attack.
player's Task Force Record Shcet.

--- PAGE 27 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
Jetermining the Coinbat Ratio
For eich attack, the total attack value of any ships, bases, and
COMBAT RESULTS
1 lo 2
2 to 3
I to I
fighlers in the attacking force are compared to the lotal delensc
310 2
2 to 1
3 to 1
(or less)
value of any ships, fighters, and hases in the defending force. Note
(or more)
3A/+3
.2CA/+3
-2CA/+2
-ICA/+2
-ICA/+I
thal bases can only be used in comhais that take place in a single
-2CA/+4
-2AR/+2
-1AR/+2
-IAR/+I
--1AR/0
0AR/0
orbital segment.
-2AR/+4
-1AR/+2
-IAR/+I
0/+1
0/0
If the altack is a dcep spacc interception, thc phasing playcr
+1/0
-1AR/+3
0/+ 1
I+/+-
00
+1/0]
is the defending force and the opposing playcr is the attacking
+1/--1
-I/+3
+1/0
+1/-1
force. If the attack occurs in an orhitat segment agzinst a Task
+2/-1DR
0/+2
+1/0
0/0
++.
+2/-IDR
+2/-2DR
Force with an attack or Hs attack mission, the phasing player is
+1/+2
1 -fI+
+1/-1
+2/-1DR
+2/-2DR
+3/-2DR
considered thc Attacking force and the opposing player the
I+/{+
+1/-1
+1/-IDR
+2/-2DR
+3/-2DR
+3/-3DR
Defending force. If the allack occurs in an orbital segnment, and
+t/+1
+2/-1)R
+2/-1DR
+3/-2DR
+3/-3DR
+3/-3BT
the phasing player's Task Force has a supply, ground suppori, or
10
+2/0DR
+2...2DR
+2/-2BT
+3/-3BT
+3/-3BT
+3/-3BT
orbital drop mission, the phasing player is considered the Defend-
ing force and the opposing player is considered the Attacking
force.
The Renegade fighter force's interception com-
defending naval unit's screen was penetruted, and the attacking
Note that for each fatigue level assigned to the participating
bat from the previous example is resolved on the 1 to
force is now able to engage enemy orbital bases in that segment.
Task Force, the atack or defense value of each unit is reduced by
2 (or less] column. If the TOG fighters do not detect
The defending formations break up to better protect themselves,
I (see Fatigue. p. 32).
the Renegade force, the Renegade player may use
and retteal in disarray. All defending naval forces inust make a
Comparing the lolal attack value to the lotal defense valuc
the 2 to 3 column instead.
saving roll lu avoid bcinig dest royed, and defending forces thal are
creates a ratio, Round the ratio down in the Defender's favor until
nt destroyed are disrupted, Defending orbital facilities must
it matches one of the ratios listed in the Combat Results Table.
Resolving the Combat
inake a saving roll to avoid being disrupted. The detending forces
The number to the right of the rounded-down rati is thc combal
When the combal ratie column lo hc uscd has been deter-
in the orbital segmeni must retreat. Thc attacking player adds +!
ratio thnodificr for the combat die roll.
mined. the Attackcr rolls a dic and cross-relerenccs the resull
lo his cuitcnt score on ihc Breakthtrough/Counieraltack Track.
igainst the appropriate column on the Comhal Results Tahle.
CA. This result is a coutterattack. Record it on the Break-
The TOG fighter force consists of wo Medium
This Combat Results Tabfe is simnilar to the planelary C'um-
through/Courlerattack Track. A counterattack result means that
Fighter Flights (Defense Value 6) and three Heavy
bat Resulls Table, but the results ure interprcted slighily litfer-
the dcfending force broke the oncoming atiack and was able to
Fighter Flights (Defense Value 7) for a totaf Defense
cntly. Numhers and ahbreviations to ihe lelt of thc slish apply to
cngage any of the allacker's orbilal facilitics in thal segment. The
Value of 33. It is being intercepted by three Ren-
the Attacking forces. Numbers und abhreviations to the right of
result is the same as for a breakthrough, bur applies to the
egade Light Fighter Flights (Ahack Value 2) and wo
the slash apply to the Defending forces. Ail ntmbers nodify the
altacking naval force ind any attacking facilities in the orbital
Medium Fighter Flights (AHock Value 3) For a total
Defense value of the unit making the saving roll (see Saving
segment. raiher than the defending forces. The altacking naval
Aack Value of 12. This creates a ratio of 12:33, or
Rolls, below). The abbreviations represenl results in addition to
force tnust retrcat, is aulomatically disrupted, and must make
1 to 2 odds. This aitack will be resolved on the 1 to
the saving rorl modifiers.
saving rolls to avoid being destroyed. Any attacking facilities in
2 (or less) column of the Combat Results Table.
AR/DR. These are attacker retreats and defender retrcats.
the orhital seginent do not retreat, but must make saving rolls to
respcctively. After both sides havc mide their stving rolls, the
avoid being disrupted. The Dcfending player adds +i to his
etection Shifts
defcaled player Fctreals from the battle, Retreating nilval forccs
currcnt score on thc Breakthrough/C'ountcrattack Track.
If the Attucking force has not been detected, ihe Attacking
are removed from the Sector Combat Cnart and relume to their
piayer may choose to use the combat resulrs coiumn to the right
Task Force Holding Box, These forces are no lnnger availahle to
The TOG fighter group from the above example
of the actual coinbat ratio column delermined by comparing the
help accomplish thc Task Force's mission lor ihe resl of this lurn.
is intercepted by a undetected group of Renegode
total defensc and altack values. Thc player must announcc this
Transports with supplies or oiher cargo cannot otf-load their
fighters. The Renegade player makes an aitack using
shift before making the combat die roll.
cargo this lum. Bases cannot retreat.
the 2 to 3 column and rolls a 6, Feceiving a +1/0
If the Atticking force has bcen detected, no column shifts are
BT. This result is a breakthrough. Record it on the Break-
result. The five Renegade Fighter Flights modily their
allowed.
through/Counteraltack Track. A breakihrsugh mcans that the
base saving roll target number by +1. The five TOG
Fighter Flights receive no modifier to their sarving roll.
28

--- PAGE 28 [OCR] ---
RULES
In fhe example above, the TOG force had ta
not contain friendly naval fofces that suffcr a BT or CA result
Saving Rnlls
made a saving roll for ecch of its five Fighter Flights.
must nake a siving roll lo avoid being destroyed. A base with
After the combat results are determined, the ships and fighters
Because the fighters were on a high speed attack
I'riendly naval forces must tnake a saving roll to avoid being
of all attacking and defeinding forccs make saving rolls. The basc
mission, they receive α +2 modifier to their saving
disruplcd.
target number foreach unit's saving roll is equal to its defense value
roll target numbers. The Medium Fighter Flights save
plus or minus any mcdifiers from the Combat Results Table. Any
an a roll of 8 or less (Defense Value of 6 + 2]. The
Attacking Jisrupted Units
forees with a high speed attack nission also add +2 to their silving
Heavy Fighter Flights save on aα roll of 9 or less
Disrupted units might be altacked in thc course of the game
roll target numher. If the phasing player's force has a ground
(Defense Value of 7 + 2). The TOG player rolls the die
helre they have a chance lo be rebuilt. A withdrawing Task Force
suppon, supply, or orbilal drop mission, the opposing player axlcis
for each Flight. He rolls a 7 and a 9 for the two
of disrupted units iray be intcrccpled, and a distupled base may
 +2 modifier to all of his saving roil target nuinbers.
Medium Flights and α 3. 4, and 10 for the three
bc altacked.
Roll a die for each unit thal is making a saving roll. ff the
Heavy Flights. One Medium Fight and one Heavy
A player attacking α disrupted unit or base adds a +2
result is less than or cqual lo the modified defense value of the
Flight are disrupted. The counters ore flipped over
niodilier to all his saving roll target numbers, in addition to any
unit, ihc unit is unharmed. If the rcsull is morc than the modilied
and moved to the Task Force Holding Bax.
olher modificrs allowed by mission lype or combat results.
defense value, the uni is disrupted.
The Renegade player now makes saving rolls
Disrupted units arc destroyed if thcy fail any saving Tolt.
If the comhat ended with  BT or CA tesult, and the unit
for his five Flights. The three Light Flights haive a
When a transport or base is destroyed, any supply or other cargo
failed its suving roll, the unit is desiroyed. tf thc unit nnakes its
Defense Value of 3, and the wo Medium Flights have
(Marine Cohorts or disassembled bases) it is camying is aulso
saving roll, in is disrupled.
 Defense Value of 7. A +3 modifier [+1 for the
destroyed. Dcstroyed cargo is placed in the Dcstroyed Naval Unit
Orbilal hases have lo make saving rolls to avoid disruption if
combat resuit and +2 for attacking a force with d
Box. Dcstroyet supply points are simpiy lost.
no friendly naval ships or fighters in the orbital segtnent took part
high speed attack mission is added to these target
in the cornbat. If friendly naval forces werc involved in thc coinbat.
numbers, and so the Light Fighter Flights save on α
MISSION RESOLUTION
then the orbital basc dccs net havc to make a saving roll. lf no
roll of 6 or less, and the Medium Fighter Flights save
fricndly naval forces were involved, the base makes normal saving
After deep-space-interceplion combat is resolved, the phas-
on a roll of 10 or less. Because a roll of 10 always
ing player should take any surviving forces and atienpt to fuifill
rolls after any combat and is automatically disrupled on a BT or CA
fails, the actual target number is 9 or less. The
thc Task Force's assignet mission. Generally, ihe phasing player
result. A disrupted base tmusl nake a saving roll lo avoid desiruc -
Renegade player rolls a 5, 2, and 8 for the Light
ticn.
mioves his surviving fighters and ships to one of the orbital
Fighter Flights and a 10 and 7 for the Medium
The counlers of disrupied nava! forces are inverted and
segments on the system map's Sector Combat Chart. The oppos-
Fighter Flights. One Light and one Medium Flight are
relumed lo their Task Force. Disrupted units may not be usetl lo
ing player then places any fricndly units or bases assigned to that
disrupted and move to the Task Force Holding Box.
help aceunplish any imissions assigned to thc Task Forec. During
segment on the Seclor Coinhat Chart (exccpt see Recon below).
The other three Flights are also moved to the Task
Note that while the Scctor Cornhat Chart shows len segments.
the Task Forcc Adjuslmcnt Phase, all disrupled unils in ia seclot
Force Holding Box, and their interception cornbat
planetoicds have only Seginents 1 through 4 active. and only
must be formed into a single Task Force. Players may at that liine
has been resolved. The remaining three Flights are
voluntarily disrupt addiliunai units in the seclor to provide trens-
not disrupted. The disrupted TOG and Renegade
Once the units have beert ntoved to the appropriate segmcnt,
Hirt for slranded Fighler Flights.
Fighter Flights must form separate Task Forces in thaf
Disrupted hases are inverted and rcmain in their orhilal
the phasing player attempis to accomplish his mission in that
sector during the Task Farce Adjustment Phose of the
segment. Their Attack Value is reduccd to ( until they ire
segment. In some cases, the player's forces musl simply survive
turn, then will be given a withdrawal mission during
reurganized. Their delerise value does not change.
an atlark from any opposing playcr forccs in the scgment. If the
the Mission Assignment Phase of the next turn.
Disrupted units can be rcorganizeu and retuned ln icliol
afrer they reaeh a friendly hasc
mission. the phasing plas'cr attacks any cnemy forces in the
If th plavers ire making u siving roll against a BT r CA
gmcnt.
result, all nval forces involvec in the comhit are autoetically
Unlikc wih decp space intercepiots. the opposing player
disrupted. 'Thc saving rojl is made to determine if an indixidluul
ducx not muve undisrupted loreces to thc Task Forcc Record Shcet
unit is tlestrowed. I' u unin liils its suving roll, it is desiruyeul iud
uifitr they huve engaged in cornbat. These furces stay on the Sector
plated in the Dentroye Unit Box on th playtt's (Ousyslcin Area
Cohal hait in their orhiral segments, and cmn le used more
Chart. This unit can be rehuilt by the liyer. tSet Rehnilding
tha mce. Disruptetl opposing forces irt movel to their Tusk
esiroed I'nits. p. 3i. Nttt th:t b:hts in i1 stgmm 1hit titt-
I'rt Rtt'tr Shet.
29

--- PAGE 29 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
Task Forces assigned a HS attack mission allack all enemy
Once an orbital seginent's forces have been deployed an the
Recnn
forces or orbital hases in their segment. Comhal proceeds as
system map's Scctor Combat Chart. those forces may nor be used
Task Forccs with a recon mission attempt to determine tl
described above, bul bxth sides add a +2 modifier to any saving
for dccp space inlercepion allacks. Thus, successful recon at-
rull largel nurnbcrs. An additional -3 modifier is applied to the N-
lempis will"freeze" forces in their orbital segnents and make them
If the retn Task Farcc is not inlerccpted (sce Combat), ar!
spuce detection larget number.
unavailable fur deep space interception. This freeze rcflecis the
all units disrupled or destroyed, the Defending player must lell il
The phasing player tmay allocate his forces to an orbital
recon unit's ahility to ckosely track the detected units and vectof
Attacking player the tolal Sig tactor in each of the sector's orbit.
seginenl that conlains no opposing forees, thus avoiding conbal.
friendly attacking forces away fron enemy interccption aticnipls.
scgments, and allow ihe Altacking player to make one detecti
[f ihe phasing player uscs this sirategy. ihosc forees rcturn to their
Players may aborl any Task Forcc mission, excepl wilh-
allernpt in an orbital segment of the Attacker's choice. If th
Task Force Holditig Box, The Task Force will still suffer a level
drzwal or sector defense., prior to placing forces on the Deep
alttenpt is successful, the Defending player must place all his bast
of fatigue, though the opposing Task Forces with a sector defense
Space Interception Box. The player simply declares that the Task
and forces in that scgment on the system's Sector Combat Cha!
tnission will nol be fatigucd.
Force is aborting is mission, and no furthcr action is required.
A -3 modifier is upplied 1o the N-spacc detection saving ru
However, the force still receives a level of fatigue, Once the 'I'ask
target numbcr against a Task Force with a recon missiori.
In the example above, the TOG Force has only
Force's units are placed on the Deep Space Interception Box. Ihe
Forces used in th: recon atteinpt do not have to be placed i
one Medium Fighter Flight (Attack Value of 3) and
forces must attempt to fulfill their mission.
any orbital segment of the Sector Comhat Chart. Those forces al
two Heavy Fighter Flights [Attack Value of 4 each]
placed on the Deep Space [Interception Box.
Attack
remaining. The TOG player announces that his force
will be assigned to Orbital Segment 3. In that
Suppty
Task Forces assigned this mission are making low-speed
segment, the Renegade player has the remaining
Task Forces assigned a supply mission attempt to transfe
attacks against auy orbital bases or enemy naval forces operating
cruiser (Delense Value of 8), and the ONl-class
in a single orbital segmenl. The force enters the scgmcnt at a
supplies and or troops to a friendly base. The units of this defendin:
naval base (Defense Value of 3). The Renegade
Task Force arc moved to any orbital segment in the sector.
Telatively low velocily, which allows it lo make muliple passen
player places those forces on the Sector Combat
The opposing player then places all of his forces, includin:
at its target.
Chart in Segment 3.
bases in the segment, on the Sector Cormbat Chart, if he has no
Once the phasing player has assigned his forces to the orbital
The TOG forces have α total Atack Value of 11,
already done so. The opposing player then may attack the phasin!
and the Renegade farces have a total Delense Value
player's forces with any, some, or none of the forces in th
bases' assigned serlor defense furces, in the segineni, Then the
of 1 1, for a 1 to 1 combat ratio. If the TOG force had
atlacking force musl make un altitck as deseribed in Combat
seginent per Combat, p. 26. Bases do not have to participate in th
not been detected in N-space, the TOG player could
Resolution, p. 27. If the phasing playcr's forces were not delectexl
altack, but their weapon systems possess sufficient range tt
hove chosen to resolve the attack on the 3 to 2 column.
whilc in onnal spacc. hc may apply a column shift lu his alluck.
engage targcis in their orbital segment. Orbital and ground base
The TOG player rolls a 4, resulting in a -1 / +1 result.
do not have to make saving tolls.
Othcrwise, the allack is resolvcd as above.
Because the attack is a high speed attack, the
Following the attack, the opposing pkuyer's forces re main on
Any units in the Task Force with the supply mission whicl
TOG player will add a +1 [+2, -1] io his saving roll
the systetmn map's Seetor Combat Cliart, and do not return to the
are not disrupted or desiroyed by attacks from enemy forces witl
target number, and the Renegade player will add a
Orbital Forcc Alloxation Charl, until all combat in the seclur is
a sector delense mission may transfer their supply points o!
+3 to all saving roll target numbers (+2, +1]. All the
resolved.
transported ground forces to any friendiy base in the orbita
TOG forces make successhul saving rofls, as does the
The phasing player may allocate his forces to an orbita!
segment. Attacking enemy forces add an additional +2 mnodifier
Renegade cruiser. The Renegade orbital statian does
segment that does not contain any opposing forces. thus avoiding
to their saving rofl targel numbers when making attacks agains
not have to make a roll due to the presence of the
combat. If the phasing playcr uses this strategy, thosc forces
a Task Force with a supply mission.
cruiser.
rcturn to their Task Force Holding Box. The Task Farce will still
The supply mission can also be used to transfer starships and
The TOG fighters move back to their Task Force
suffer a level of fatigue. though the opposing Task Forces with a
fighiers to a sector, or to bring a Task Force into the system.
Holding Box lo rejoin the Pursuit and Defense Squad-
sector defense mission will not be fatigued.
without perforning some other mission.
ron and the two disrupted Fighter Flights. The Ren-
egade forces remain in Orbital Segment 3, until all
Sector Defense
HS Attack
Task Forces with secior defense missions are assigned te
A high speed (HS) altack is made at such high relative
TOG Task Forces have cornpleted their missions for
various orbital scgments in a sector to defend the sector agains
velocity that forces can make only one firing pass beforc ilying
that sector.
enemy inirusion. Only insystem Task Forces can be assigned thi
oul of rangc of one another.
mission, atd only one friendly Task Force in a syslem sector ma

--- PAGE 30 [OCR] ---
RULES
be assigned a sector defense mission.
Instead ut placing the forces in ihe Tusk Force Holding Box,
the forces are allocated 1o the orbital segtnents of the Orbial
Force Allocatim Chart for the planel or planeluid in thc sector.
These forces defend the various orhital segments against enemy
forces in the seclor.
These forces ray also be used to make initerceptions againsl
incoming cnemy Task Forees. helore thc atlarking forccs irc
allocated to an orbital segment.
Bases located in the orbital segiment are automatically con-
sidered par1 of the sector delerise. The player may chouse to
incorporate ground or orbital bases into atlacks againsl enemy
forces assigned supply, ground support, or orbital drop missions.
Orbital bases niusr be included in the defense alue total when
altacked by enemy forces with an attack or HS attack mission, but
ground bascs in that scctor are not added to the defense value total.
Withdrawal
Task Forces with a withdrawai mission are scheduled to he
Orbital Drop
Ground Support
moved out-of-system or lo an insystem scctor containing
Task Forccs assigned an orbital drop mission atilenpt to land
Forces engaging in a ground support mission attempt lo
ftiendly base, Withdrawing Task Forces are not available to
attack enerny grounct forccs or ground bases. Intercepicd Task
troops on an cncrny basc or planet from transports. Intercepted.
conduct comhat missions, but they may bc inlercepted and
units of the Task Force move to any orbital segment in the sector.
Farce units are moved to any orhital seginent in the sector.
atlacked before thcy execule their withdrawal.
The opposing player then places all his forces, including
The opposing player then places all his forees. including
Affer all phasing player missions in the sector have been
bascs in the segmenl, on the Scclor Combat Chart, if he has not
bases in the segment, on the Sector Conbal Chart, if he has not
already done so. The opposing player ihen may attack the phasing
already done so. Thc opposing player may attack the phasing
withdrawing eneiny Task Forcc in the sector. The opposing
player's forces with any, some, or none of the forces in the
player's forces with any, some, or none of the forces in the
player makes a nornal N-spacc detection attempt by adding all
segiment per Combat. p. 26. Bases do not have to participate in the
segment per Combat. p. 26. Bases do not have to participate in the
the non-uisruptedi Sector Defense Fask Force ship and base ESM
aitack, hut thcir weapon sysleins posscss sufficicnt rangc lo
ralings to the Sig rating of the withdrawing Task Force. The Sig
engage targels in their orbilal segment. Orbital and ground bases
engage largcts in their orhita! segtncnt. Orbital and ground hacs
rating of forces that made deep space inierceptions this turn may
do not have to make saving rolls.
do not have to make saving rolls.
noi be addcd to thc lotal target nuinber for this dctcction attempt.
Attackingenemy forces add a +2 modifier to their saving rall
Any units in the Task Force with an orbital drop mission that
If the detection attetnpt is successful, then any units of the
arc nol disrupicd r destroyed by attacks from enemy forces with
larget numbers when making altacks against a Task Forcc with a
opposing player's Sector Defense Task Force that have not been
a sector defense mission may trarisfer ground forces lo any hex in
ground support mission.
placed on the Seclor Combat Chari may he used to attack the
Forces that survive attacks fron enemy ferces issigned a
the ippropriate orbital segment. Supply points may be transferred
withdrawing Task Force (as fong as its thrust equals or cxceeds
directly to any Legion or Auxilia headquarters (see Campaign
sector defensc mission inay be used to suppurt the ground forces
the thrustof the lowest thrust unit of the withrtrawing Task Force).
Rules. p. 36). Attacking enemy forces add a +2 modifier to their
in the orbilal segmcnt (sec Campaign Rules, p. 3h) or lo makc
Enemy forces add a +2 modifier to their saving roll target
saving roll larget numbers when making attacks against a Task
atlacks against any ground bases in the orbital seginen. Allacks
numbers when attacking a Task Force with a withcrawat nission.
Furce with an orhital drop mission.
on ground bases are made as nomial, but thc total attack value of
in addition to any modificrs from the Comhat Results Table and
In the space game, the orbital drop mission is used only to
the ground support forces is compared only to thc delernse value
modifiers given for attacking disruptett units, if applicable.
of the grount hase.
fulfil! vitlory conditions. Sce Campaign Rules for more delailed
A Task Force from out-of-system may not atempt to move
rules.
In the spacc gamc. the ground support mission is used only lo?
o a insystem sector containing a fricndly bisc hy cxecuting a
fulfill victory condilions or to make allack s igainst a ground hase.
-ithdrawal mission.
See Ground Bases and Campaign Rules Ior ttwore tletailed rules.
31

--- PAGE 31 [OCR] ---
-PREFECT
FATIGUE
TASK FORCE ADJUSTMENT
SUPPLY POINTS
When all missions have been resolved, all forces that en-
Naval supplies are tracked much as ground supplies. Each
PHASE
gaged in combat of performed any mission other than supply.
base or Transport Squadron has a Supply counter, which is used
withdrawal, or sector defense receive one additiona! level of
to keep track of its level of supply on the player's Supply Record
fatigue. Regardless of the mission, if the Task Force or any
Following the Defender Space Combat Phase, the players
Track. As supplies are constmed or lost, the appropriate counters
may adjust the forces in their curren1 Task Forces. Players may
portion of it engaged in combat, the Task Forcc receives one
are moved to reflect the charige. A numbcr representing the
additional level of fatigue per tum. Task Forces can receive up to
activate new Task Furces al any friendty naval base, ur froin ihe
max imnum level of supply that a base or transprt can hold appears
three levels of fatigue. Each level of fatigue reduces a Task
forces in the Functional Naval lJnit Box in the Outsystein Area
on each Supply counter.
Force's altack and defense values by l, whenever the Task Force
Chart. All disrupted units in a seclor must be fomed into a singie
The outsystem areas for both the Renegade and TOG sides
engages in combal.
Task Force at this time, and must be given a withdrawal nission
are considered to provide un unlimited amount of supply. Thus,
Units that have three levels of fatigue and suffer an addi-
in thc next turn's Mission Assignment Phase.
fatigued and disrupted Task Forces that withdraw to the
tional fatigue result are disrupted, and also retain the three levels
The Task Force Adjustment Phase allows players to cx-
outsyslem area are simply placed in the Functional Naval Unit
of fatigue. Disrupted units with three levels of fatigue suffer rt
change forces between Task Forces in thc same sector or in the
Box. These forces can bc used in the next lum's Task Force
further penalties from additional fatigue results.
outsystem area. If a unit from a fatigued Task Force joins another
Adjustmcnt Phase to fortm new Task Forces.
Bases cannot suffer fatigue.
Task Force, the highes1 fatigue level applies lo the entire Task
At the beginning of the Supply Phase, both players may
Force. If disrupted units force a Task Force to split apari, thc ncw
experd supply to restore any fatigued Task Force in a sector with
OPPOSING SECTOR DEFENSES
Task Forces retain the fatigue level of the original Task Force. If
a friendly naval base or transport. Disrupied units may also be
Opposing Task Forccs in the same sector may cach have a
two Task Forces combine into one, the highest fatigue level of the
reorganizcd.
sector defense mission without interfering with or altacking one
two Task Forces applics lo thc new Task Force.
Afier spending supply to rearn or reorganize units, players
another, During the Attacker Combat Phase, the Attacking player
Task Forces formed in the outsysteim area tmay use only the
can transfer supply between friendly bases and Transport Squad-
must declare which, if any, Task Forces iri a jointly held (dis-
available forces in the Functional Naval Unit Box. Task Forces
rons in the same orbital scgment. A transport must have a supply
puted) sector have been assigned a sector defenise mission. If the
formed in the outsystem area may not be formed using forces in
mission and have entered, in the current turn, the orbital segment
Defending player has a Task Forcc with a sector defense mission
the Destroyed Naval Unit Box. Ary Task Forcc formed in the
in which the base is located, in order to transfer supply.
in the sarme sector, both players immediately place their forces on
outsystem arca musi be assigncd a mission during the Mission
Friendly bases in the same sector and orbital segnent may
the Sector Cormbat Chart in the appropriate orbital segments.
Assignment Phase of the next turn and placed on the zero box of
transfer supply back and forth freely, but bases in different orbital
If both players have forces, including bases, in the sarne
the T-space Travel Time Track.
scgments must tuse a Task Force with a supply mission in the
segment, those forces immcdiately engage in combat. The player
Task Forces currently on the T-space Travel Tine Track
standard manner to transfer supply.
whose forces have the highest total attack value is the Atacker.
may not be adjusled in any manner.
Transports that have been disrupted may not transfer supply
A standard round of comhat is resolved, and destroyed or dis-
until ihey have been reorganized.
rupted unils are removed in the standard fashion.
SUPPLY PHASE
Disrupted bases may receive supply points from a transport
If, at the end of one round of combal, the players still have
or other friendly base in their orbirat segment, but may not
opposing forces left in the orbital segment, each player may rnove
Supplies are jusl as important to the navy as they are to the
Transfer or expend those supply points.
forces out of the orbital segment to the appropriate Task Force
arny. Starships need reaction mass for their drives, resupply of
Transport Squadrons may not use onboard supply to restore
Holding Box. Note that orbital bases cannot be moved, and so
missiles and other expendables, food, oxygen, fighter mainte-
or reorganize their Task Force.
must be either disrupted or destroyed. If a base is disrupted, the
nance and so forth, even if the vessel never fires a shot. After
In the final part of the Task Force Adjustment Phase, the
enemy forces currently in that segment carnot make additional
battle, damage needs to be repaired, and replacement fighiers and
players may rebuild destroyed units from the Destroyed Naval
attacks against it, though Task Forces with attack or HS attack
crewmen need to be assembled and prepared for the next mission.
Unit Box of their Outsystem Area Chart.
rmissions may attack the base.
Naval operations require massive and continuous efforts to teamn
Disrupted hases may not expend supplics to ream or reor-
Ground naval bases cannot be affected by enemy uniis with
and reorganize fatigued and disrupted Task Forces.
ganize Task Forces. Legion bases of class GLI, GL2, GL3, or
a sector defense mission, and so may attack unopposed, until the
GL4 may not be used for naval supply purposes.
enemy forces are disrupted or withdrawn.
32

--- PAGE 32 [OCR] ---
RULES
REARMING FATIGUED TASK FORCES
REORGANIZING DISRUFTED UNITS
Afier the players have rearmed fatigued Task Forces, they
REORGANIZATION COST TABLE
Fatigued Task Forces ream in the space game in the same
Unit
Cost
manner as in the ground game. Any Task Force in a secior
may reorganize any disrupted units contained in the same sector
BB
coniaining a friendly undisrupled naval base may climinale or
as a friendly undisrupted naval base.
CA
The base may rcorganize any numher of units, providing it
reduce its fatigue level by -l at a cost of onc supply point per unit,
FGV
has sufficient supply poinis. All the unis in a Task Forcc must be
15
starship or Fighter Flight. For example, a Task Force with one
reorganized at the same time; a Task Force may not be partialty
battleship, one destroyer, two Defense Sguadrons, and seven
pbs α
reorganized. Naval units cannot be reorganized over the course of
Flights of fighters will need to expend eleven supply points to
P Sqd
muliiple turms. However, a player may, during the Task Force
remove one level of fatigue from each unit. Multiple levels of
TRL
Adjustnent Phase, split up a Task Force containing disrupted
fatigue may be removed in one turn as long as sufficient supply
TRM
points are expended. Supply can corme from muitiple sources, if
units in order to reorganize a portion of the disrupted units in a
Ig. Ft. Flight
necessary, as iong as those bases are contained in thc same sector.
Sector.
M, Ft. Flight
Task Forces that have moved to the Outsystem Area Chart
Hvy. Fr. Flight
are disbanded, and their units placed in the Functional Naval Unit
nize itself.
Marine Cohort
The cost to reorganize a distupted unit is based on its type.
Box. The high level of supply available at these secure bases
O/GN!
removes all fatigue from these units.
0/GN2
15
0/GN3
0/GN4
50
SND/O
100
9ND/O
100
GE1
GL2
GL3
GL4
50
RFBUILDING DESTROYED UNITS
A syslem balle is simply one part of a larger-scale conflict
taking place in the thealer of operalions. The theater cormander
has lirnited resources, and will usually replace destroyed units
only as required. Destroyed naval units and bases can be rebuilt
in the outsystem area, but a limited number of units can be rebuilt
per turn, usually defined by the scenario. As a gcneral nule, no
NO 
BURSTU"
more than three units can be rebuilt in a turm.
To rebuild arty naval unit, starship, Fighter Flight, or base,
simply move the unit's counter from the Destroyed Naval Unit
Box of the Outsystem Area Chart to the Functional Naval Unit
Box. A player who does not or cannot rebuild the maximum
number of units in a tum may not carry unexpended rebuild
opportunities forward to another tunt.
33

--- PAGE 33 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
Saving rolls are made for ground bases only when enemy
saving rolls whenever they engage in combat without support,
TEMPO PHASE
units enter a base's orbital seginent and atlack with a ground
and so do not have the slaying power of their ground counterparts.
Orbital bases can be placed anywhere on the system map.
support mission. As par of the scctor deferise forcc, the ground
In the Tempo Phase, the players delermine which player will
and are not restricted to plaretary bodies. Ground bases can only
installation may make a *frce" altack (no saving roll requircd)
be the Attacker for the next turn. If the current Attacker achieved
be placed in sectors containing planets, planetoids, or asteroids.
against the force with the ground support mission, adding i1s
m(re breakthroughs and counteraltacks than the cureni De-
attack value to the attack value of any other sector defense forces
fender, thc current Attacker will be the Attacker again next lurn.
CAPTURING BASES
in the segment. When the surviving enemy force fulfills its
The current Defender will remain the Defender. If the current
ground support mission, the ground installation must make a
Defenider had as nany counterattacks and breakthroughs as the
saving roll.
Disrupted enemy orbital bases can be captured by Marine
current Attacker, or more, the players switch roles. The current
Cohoris in a tnanner similar to ground forces capturing a plari-
Defender becomes the Attacker next tum.
For example, a Renegade GN2 base and a
etary base. In order to be available for capture. a base must be
Flight of Renegade heavy fighters occupies Orbital
curently disrupted, and there can be no other opposing naval
ORBITAL AND GROUND BASES
Segment 4 of Ku Crassus. A TOG Defense Squadron
forces or bases of any type in the orbital segment it occupies.
and one Flight of heavy fighters altack in a ground
Marine Cohoris are specially trained to attack and defend
The space game uses both orbital and ground bases. As the
support mission. The Renegade force detected the
orbital facilities, as well as ground bases located on low-gravity
narne implies, orbiial bases orbit around a planet or float free in
TOG force in N-space, but decided not to intercept
planetary bodies. Most bases have a small detachment of Marines
the system. Ground bases are dug deep into the bedrock of a
them in deep space. When the TOG force enters
assigned to them against such attacks, but in times of major
planet, moon, or asteroid, with the weapon systems hidden in the
Orbital Segment 4, the Renegade fighters (Attack
energcncy. a Cohort might be deployed 1o a smatl base without
canyons and crevasses of the terain, Ground bases are much
Value of 4) and the ground installation (Atack Value
the facilities to house it. In this case, the Marines make use of
more difficult and dangerous to destroy than orbital bases, but
of 1J combine their atfacks for a total Attack Value of
modular bartacks, which provide both living facilities and defen-
also nuch more difficult to construct. In general, ground bases
5. The TOG total Defense Value is 12, giving the
sive positions. Modular barracks can bc dug in around a ground
have higher defense values and larger supply lirnits, but lowe?
ottack 1 to 3 odds, rounded up to 1 to 2, with a 0/
base or placed around a free-floating naval base. In hotly con-
attack and EsM valies than their orbial counterparts.
+2 result. Because the TOG force is attempting a
tested sectors, a snall fighter sguadron base of twenty naval
Both orbital and ground bases are placed in an orbial
ground support mission, the Renegade player adds
ratings and officers may be surrounded by more than six hundred
segment of a planet, and are supplied per the standard supply.
an additional +2 modifier to his saving roll target
Marines in floating armorcd capsules.
reaming, and reorganizing rules.
number. All the forces involved in the combat make
Both hase types can be used for secior defense in the orbital
successful saving rolls. The GN2 base did not have to
TRANSPORTING MARINE COHORTS
segmenl lo which they are assigned. This allows the player to use
make a saving roll.
Marine Cohorts must be transported in a Transport Squad-
the bases as part of the attacking force when engaging cnermy
Now, the TOG force (total Ahack Value of 7)
ron. Each Marine Cohort displaces 10 points of supply. A Light
Task Forces assigned ground support, supply, or orbital drop
makes its ground support atack against the Ren-
Transport Squadron can carry ore Marine Cohort, and a Medium
missions. The player does not have to use a base when engaging
egade GN2 base (Defense Value of 6), at 1 to 1 odds.
Transport Squadron can carry up to ten Marine Cohorts. Marine
enemy Task Forces with such missions. The player may decide
The Renegade player rolls a 5, for a 0/0 result. The
Cohorts do not displace supply points when stationed on a base.
not to risk disrupting his base.
Renegade base and the TOG force make saving rolls
and can he loaded and transferred to a base or Transport Squadron
Disnupted bases have an Attack Value of O, and so are
against unmodified target numbers. The TOG De-
as if they were supply points during the Supply Phase of the tum.
useless until rcorganized.
fense Squadron fails its saving roll, as does the
To indicate that a Marine unit is being transported, simply
Saving rolls are made for orbitaf hases only when the
Renegade base. Both units are disrupled.
place the Marine Cohort counter under the Transport Squadron
segment containing the base is attacked by enemy forces with
counter. To indicate that a Marine unit is defending a base, place
attack or Hs attack missions, or when the opkosing side has
Because ground bases only make saving rolls in special
ii under the Base counler.
allocated sector defense forces to the base's crbital scgmenl (see
siluations, stationing a ground base in an orbital segment discour-
Opposing Sector Defenses. p. 32). If the base's scgment contains
ages the opposing player from placing seclur defensc forces in
ATTACKING A BASE
friendly naval forces with a sector defense missian, saving rolls
that segment. A ground base can fire an the enemy forces wiihout
To usc a Marine Cohort in an attack. thc transport carrying
are made oniy to avoid disruption on a BT or CA result. If a base
making saving rolls unlil the enemy has been destroyed, dis-
the Marines must be assigned to a Task Force with an attack
was not defended by fricndly naval forces. the saving toll is nade
Tupled, or withdrawn. Orhital hases, on thc ather hane, nusl nake
mission (not Hs attack), and be deployed in the actual attack. If
lo avoid distuptian, or destruction if the fesult is a BT, as norinal.

--- PAGE 34 [OCR] ---
RULES
the ttansport survives deep space interception. it can land its
Marine Cohort on the orbital base. The basc must he disrupted at
the tinmc ofthe atlack, howcvcr, or the attack cannot bc carried out.
An earlier attack that tum may hit a segment ankd disrupt all thc
sector defeise forcen and thne base, and then the Marine Cohorl
may land in a follow-on attack, all in the same Combat Phase.
The deferse value for a hase protected by Marinc Cohorts is
the class of the basc, with an additional point added to thc total
defense value for ech friendly Marine Cohorl stationed on the
base. Thus, an ON2 base assigned a Marine Cohort wouid have
a Defensc Value of 3. Note ihal the total defense valuc is based on
the base's class, not iis dcfense yaluc.
To resolve an attack on a base, the Attacking player makes
a normaf comhat roll, comparing the total attack value of the
Marines to the total defense valuc of ihe hase and its defending
Marine forces. If the base fails its saving roll, the base and all its
suppiy is captured, and the Marines defending it are destroyed. If
the base is captured. the Attacking player replaces the Base
counter with a Base counter of the samc class from his own
counter mix, The base is still considered disruptcd.
If the Defernding player makes a successful saving rail. the
base rentains in the possession of its current dwner, the attacking
Marines are tesiroyed, and iheir Transport Squadrn is disrupted.
ESTABLISHING NEW ORBITAL
BASES
The players nay not huild ground hases in the space gume.
However, they can load the component parts of orbital bases into
TRANSPORT SOUADRONS AS BASES
can be split up among the transports in i Tisk Furce. If iuy single
Iransports in thc outsystem arca, transport them to the system map.
Iransport Squadron is distupted while tarrying the orhilal base.
A player may choose to have a Transport Squadron serve as
and assemble the base in the sector and orbital segment of their
all the Transport Squadrons cartying the conponents of the
a base, The player moves the transport to the sector and orbital
choice, excluding any orbial segnent conitaining an enerny base.
orbital base are disrupted. If one of the Transporting Sqtuadrons
scgment from which he wishes to operate. During the Task Force
is destroyed, then the entire hase is destroyed.
Adjustment Phase, the player rcmoves the Transpori Squadron
TRANSPORTING BASES
A base can only be moved by a Task Force with a supply
counter from the Task Force Holding Box and places it in the
A player can transport insystem any orbital base that is in the
mission. Once the Task Force arrives safcly at the sector and
Orbital Force Allocation Chart for the sector, if orbiting around
Functional Naval Unit Box of'his Outsyslem Area Chart. To
orbital segment in which the player wishes to establish the base.
a planetary body. Otherwise, the counter should be placed on the
indicate that the base is being transported, simply place the Base
the base tnay be offloaded in the Supply Phase of the rurr.
system map. The opposing player should be informed of the
counter under the Task Force counter.
Thc base is then placed in the appropriate orbital scgmert, or
Iocation of the new transport/base.
Bases displace 20 Supply Points per class level. Thus, an
on the seclor map if not in orhit around a planetary bxxdy. The base
Until the transport counter is returned 1o a Task Force, the
ON3 base displaces 60 points of supply, whilc an ON4 hase
is considered to be disrupted, and may be reorganized in the normal
unil will function as a naval base.
displaces 80 Supply Points. A single Transport Squadron cannot
manner during the next Supply Phase. The opposing player should
During any subsequcnt Task Force Allocation Phase, the
carry all the components needed to assemble a base. hut the load
bc inforrned of the base 's location upon deployment.
player can place the transport in a Task Force and move as normal.
35

--- PAGE 35 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
CAMPAIGN GAME
areas on the planetary map as shown in the iltustration below. Any
Air/Space Defense Century
The campaign game of Prefect combines the planetary and
ground base in an area is considered to be in the corresponding
The Air/Space Defensc Century is a cormbat support unit
space games into an integrated whole. In the campaign game,
orbital segment, as described in Orbital and Ground Bases, p.
assigned to protect a Task Force from attack by Fighter Flights
players control all aspects of invading and defending a planet.
34, in the space game rules. Other ground units in an area can be
assigned ground support tmissions.
Unless otherwise specified, players should use the rules from the
attacked by enemy forces with a ground support mission in the
For each Air/Space Defeise Century in a Task Force, the
planelary and space games to play the canpaign game.
corresponding segment. Naval forces perfoming an orbital drop
saving roll target number of any attacking Flight is reduced by -1.
COMPONENTS
mission in that segment can only land their troops in hexes in the
corresponding planetary area.
Ground Support and Orbital Drop Holding Boxes appear for
The campaign game uses all the components from the
each planetary area to hold forces which are being dropped or
0 (1) 00
planetary and space games, plus several new counters.
committed to ground support somewhere in that planetary area.
GROUND BASES
PLANETARY MAP
NEW UNITS AND CAPABILITIES
The planetary game did niot use the attack, defense, and EsM
The planetary map for the campaign garne is used as de-
A ncw combat support unit, the Air/Space Defense Century,
values of Legion and Naval ground bases. Those values are used
scribed in the planetary game except that the orbital segiments for
is added to the campaign game. Ground bases rcceive additional
in the campaign game when a base is in combat against enemy
the Ku Crassus Force Allocation Chart correspond directly lo the
capabilities.
space forces. See Ground Support Missions, p. 38.
PLANETAA
LANETAIY
PLANETARY
PLANETARY
PLANETAIY
AREA H
AREA 量3
ARRA 15
AREA 1
AREA
PLANETARY
LANETARY
PLANETAR
PLANETART
PLANIARY
EA
AREA量10
A胞EA 排了
AREAI
AREE
36

--- PAGE 36 [OCR] ---
RULES
Ground Withdrawal Phase
GAME SET-UP
Attacker Space Combat Phase
Use the planietary game Withdrawal Phase rules.
Use the space gane Attacker Space Combat Phase rules.
except that Task Forces with ground support missions do not
The Prefect carmpaign game is designed for two players.
Supply Phase
resolve their missions until friendly ground forces are in combat.
One player controls the TOG nava! and ground forces, and one
Supply points are expended to rearm and reorganize fatigued
Orbital drop missions are resolved in the Supply Phase.
player controls the Renegade/Commonwealth naval and ground
and disrupted units. Then destroyed ground and naval forces can be
forces. The players may find it helpful to begin by selecting the
rebuil according to the appropriate rebuild nules. Next, supply
Defender T-space Mavernent Phase
Invasiori scenario, p. 6 in the scenarios book, setting up the
points can be transferred between bases, headquarlers, and trans-
Use the space garne Defender T-space Movemcnt Phase
planets and planetoids on the Ku Crassus systerm map according
Tules.
ports.
to the zone/sector coordinates provided.
Supplies and troops dropped by naval forces with an orbital
Task Force Record Sheets, Force Allocation Charts, and so
Defender Insystem Movement Phase
drop mission land in this phase.
on are set up according to the Game Set-up rules in the planetary
Use the space game Defender Insystem Movement Phase
and space games.
Tempo Phase
rules.
Use the planetary and space gane Tempo Phase riles, except
CAMPAIGN SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Defender Space Combat Phase
that playcrs keep track of all breakthroughs and counterattacks
Use the space'garme Defender Space Combat Phase rules.
occuring both ir space and on the ground. The total number of BT
The sequence of play in the campaign game combines the
except that Task Forces with ground support missions do not
and CA results will determine who will be the Attacker or Defender
resolve their mission until friendly ground forces are in comnbat.
sequences of play of the planetary and space games. Actions
for the next turl. Al the end of this phase, players should advance
Orbital drop missions are resolved in the Supply Phase.
occurming in space are generally resolved first, followed by
the turn marker one space and reset the Breakthrough/Counterat-
movement and combat of planetary forces. Finally, the separale
tack Track to zero.
Supply, Task Force Adjustment, and Tempo phases fron each
Attacker Ground Movement Phase
game are combined into the Campaign Supply Phase, Campaign
Use the planetary game Attacker Ground Movement Phase
Task Force Adjustment Phase, and Campaign Tempo Phase.
rules.
The Attacker for the first tum is usually specified by the
Defender Ground Moverent and Combat Phase
scenario. If not, each player rolis one die. The player with the
Use the Defender Ground Movement and Combat Phase rules
highest die roll is the Attacker for the first turn. Play contintes
from the planetary game. In addition, Task Forces with ground
until one player's victory conditions are met or until the number
of turns specified in the scenario is reached. The Attacker for each
invo!ved in combat.
successive turn is determined during the Tempo Phase at the end
of the previous turn.
Grourd Combat Phase
The campaign sequence of play appears below. Unless
Use the Combat Phase rules from the planelary garne. In
otherwise noted, the rules of the planetary and space game phases
addition, Attacking Task Forces with ground support missions
do not change.
may be used to support Attacker planet-based Task Forces. At the
end of this phase, players can use uncommitted Ground Support
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Task Forces to make independenit attacks against enemy Task
Forces or bases.
Naval Mission Assignnent Phase
Use the space game Mission Assignment Phase rules.
Task Force Adjustment Phase
To begin, all ground-based Task Forces are adjusted using the
Attacker T-space Movement Phase
planetary game Task,Force Adjustment rules. Next, all rlaval Task
Use the space game Atacker T-space Movement Phase rules.
Forces are adjusted using the space gane Task Force Adjustment
Attacker Insystem Moverent Phase
rules.
Use the space game Attacker Insystem Movemcnt Phase
rules.
37

--- PAGE 37 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
GROUND SUPPORT MISSIONS
not the naval tinit's defense value. Detection attempts made by
In the above example, the TOG fighters add a
Task Forces against other Task Forces are nol modified by the
+ 1 modifier to heir saving roll. If the Renegade Task
Ground support missions are handled differently in the
presence or lack of ground support navil forecs.
Force contained one Air/Space Defense Century.
campaig garme than thcy are in the space game. A Naval Task
For example, TOG Task Force #1, consisting of
the player would announce that configuration, giv-
Force with a ground support mission moves 1o the orbital segment
two Medium Armor Cohorts (Altack Value of 3 each)
ing the TOG fighters a 0 modifier (+1-1) to their
it has been assigned to attack, and may be intercepted by any
is attacking Renegade Task Force #2, consisting of a
saving roll target number. A second Renegade Air
enemy forces with a sector defense imission, as described in the
single Medium Armor Cohort [total Delense Value of
Defense Century would give the TOG fighters a total
space game rules. The owning player may use the surviving
modifier of --1 [+1 -1-1]. The Renegade player used
6]. In the same area, TOG Task Force #3, with one
forces to attack enermny ground Task Forces or bases in the
a starship in the attack, but it will not make a saving
Heavy Cohort, is attacking Renegade Task Force #4,
corresponding area of the planetary map, or to support an attack
with two Infantry Cohorts. The TOG player has two
roll unless the TOG Task Force also contains an air
by friendly ground forces. The Task Force should be piaced in the
Light Fighter Flights [Ahack Value of 2 each] available
defense unit.
Ground Support Holding Box for the planeiary area.
in the area. The Renegade player has one Pursuit
During the ground conbat phascs of the turn, players may
Squadron (Attack Value of 7) in the area, The TOG
Any naval forces used to support a ground attack are imme-
allocate the space forces in the.area to assist their ground forces
player elects to commit both his Ffights to support the
diately removed from the planetary map and placed with their
in combat in any manner and at any time they choosc. At the end
attack on Renegade Task Force #2. The Renegade
Task Furce after thc combat has been resolved.
of the Cormbat Phasc, hoth players may use any rcmaininig space
player cormrnits the Pursuit Squadron in its Task Force's
forces with ground support missions to make independent atiacks
defense. The other attack is made without support.
Supported Attacks Against Bases
against ground Task Forces. Once the conbat is resolved, the
A detection attempt is made, both sides are
Whern facing an attack launched only from space, bases can
space unit retums to the Task Force Holding Box.
detected, and the combat beween Task Forces #1
easily give as good as they get. But if a space or air attack is
and #2 is resolved. The TOG total Aack Value for
For example, the Renegade player is the De-
combined with a ground attack, the effectiveness of a base's space-
the atfack is 10 [3 + 3 + 2 + 2). The Renegade total
fender for this turn. He has two Light Fighter Flights
directed weaponry is severely hanpered, The base must keep its
Defense Value is 1 3 (6 + 7). The combat is resolved
and α Patrol Squadron in Area 1 with a ground
missile silos and laser bays closed to prevent enermy artillery from
on the 2 to 3 column of the Comba! Results Table. The
support mission. He elects to have one Fighter Flight
slipping in a well-placed HELL round. Ground bases' sensor and
Attacker rolls an 8, receiving α +1 /-1 result.
support an attack against a TOG Task Force that is
targeling airays can also be blinded by a ground battle swirling
moving through one of his Task Force's zones of
around them. The end result is that a base under combined attack
control. The second Fighter Flight is used to supple-
Fighter Flighis assigned to suppori Task Forcc conbal must
shuts down all bul iis smallcr point-defense systems.
ment the defense of a Task Force under attack. The
make saving rolis, applying any modificrs to the largel number
A ground attack supported by friendiy air forces launched
Patrol Squadron is used at the end of the Combat
allowed by the Combat Results Table. If the enemy Task Force
against an enemy ground base is handled in exactly the same
Phase to make an attack against α TOG GL2 base.
includles Air/Space Defense Centuries, friendly Task Force sav-
manner as described above. If the base under attack is
undisrupled, starships supporting the attack must make saving
ing roll largel numbers are reduced hy -l for cach Century presenl
SUPPORTING TASK FORCE COMBAT
rolls against unmodified 1arget numbers. Supporting Fighter
in ihe enemy Task Force.
Undisrupted bases are considered to have a number of Air!
After all combat is declared, both playcrs may assign al,
Flights must add an additional modifier, eyual to their defense
Space Defense Ceniuries equal to their rating (Planetary Gaine
value, to their saving roll target numbers.
some, or none of the ground support nava! forces in the map arca
rules, p. 7).
A hase under attack must make a saving roll, with the target
in which the combat is taking place to supplement the attack or
Starships do not have to make saving rolls unless an air
number moxified by the cornbat resulis. If the base is already
defense value totals of one or morc of their Task Forces. The
defense unit is present. Regardless of the numher of air defense
disrupted. failing the saving roll means that the base and all the
players then can add the attack value of the supporting naval units
units present, or the combat results, starships will only fail a
lo ihe Task Force's tolal attack or defense value, as appropriate.
supplies it contains are destroyed.
Even if naval support is assisting a defending Task Force,
saving roll against air defcnse on a resull of 10. All othier results
are considered a successful saving roll.
only the artark value of the ground support naval forces is added,
38

--- PAGE 38 [OCR] ---
RULES
DISRUPTED BASES
SUPPLY
INDEPENDENT ATTACKS
Distupted gtutnd and naval bases have an Atlack Value of
At the end of the Comhat Phase, afier all ground combat has
(o, but retain their full defense value, Disnupted bases may nol
The campaign game supply procedure is the same as the
been resolved, any unused ground support naval forces may make
transfer supply, rearm, reorganize, or rebuild units, but they may
nupply procedure in the planetary and space games, excepi that
independenl attacks on any enetmy Task Force or base.
rcceive supply. Disrupted bases may only expend supply points
The Aitacking player resolves his independent attacks first.
to reorganize themselves.
The majority of supply must bc transported io the planet and othcr
allocating forccs against any encmy Task Forces or bases of his
bases from thc outsystem areas. Urban areas also generate a
choice.
TRANSPORTING TROOPS
limited amount of supply each tum, as defined by the scenario.
If the defending Task Force has been detected this tum. the
Cotnbat and support units can be carried on naval transports
During the Supply Phase, the players should perform the
allack is camied out as describcd in Supported Attacks Against
in place of supply points. Because the physical spacc occupied is
following operations in this order:
Bases, above. The allack valuc of the naval units making the attack
aboul the same for every 1ype of unit, most ground utits displace
1. Rearm and reorganize fatigued and disrupted units.
is compared to the defense value of the Task Force (after all nomal
10 points of supply. However, certain ground units use such
2. Rebuild destroyed ground and naval forccs.
ground combat modifiers for terrain have been added). Saving rolls
massive equipment, or are so much larger than standard, that they
3. Transfer supply points and/or combat units betwcen
for the attacking force are handled as descrbed above.
will displace more supply points. Use the following table to
bases, hcadquarters, and transports.
If the defending Task Force is undetccted, the attacking
determine how many supply points a ground unit will displace.
4. Carry out orbital drop missions of supplies and trops.
force must make a detection attempt as described in the planetary
game's Detection section, p. 1 2, using the EsM value of the naval
unis. When delermining the total ESM value for thc detection
Supply Points
Ground Unit Type
allempl, subtract 2 from the ESM values of all starships. Fighter
Displaced
15
Flight ESM values are not modified.
Legion Headquarters
If the attacking force fails to detcct the defendig Task
30
Heavy Armor Cohort
20
Force, no attack may be made, and ihe allocated naval forces are
Militia Regiment
40
retumed to their Task Force Holding Box. If thec enemy Task
Garrison Legion
10
Force is detected, a nomnal attack is carried out., Note that the
All Other Units
defending Task Force dces riot have to make a detection attempt
for thc attacking naval forces: those forces are considercd dc-
tected for this comhat.
To indicate that a comhat unit is being transported, place the
An independent naval force atlack against a ground base
unit counter under the Transport Squadron counter. If the trans-
uses the space game tombal rules. The ground base is always
port is destroyed while carrying the unit, the unit is also destroyed.
cunsidered to he detected. If the allacking naval Task Force was
A disrupted transport will not disrupt thc trarsported unit, but it
not detected in N-space, he attacking force may make a colurnn
cannot off-ioad the unit until it has been reorganiz.cd.
shifi, Fighters do not add the hase's rating as a rmodifier to their
Players may combine transports to carry units too large to be
saving roll target numbers. However, if Air/Space Defense Cen-
carried by a single transport. just as several transports can move
luries are stalioned at the hase. alf fighters apply a -1 modifier to)
One base. All the transports moving a unit must rermitin in the same
their saving roll targct numhers for each Century prcsent.
Task Force until the unit is off-loaded.
Bases are not affected by AR, DR, CA, and BT resulis. but
Transports with a supply mission can only off-load ground
must make saving rolls using the appropriate modifiers.
units in planetary areas containing friendly bases. Ground troops
If a base contains an enemy Task Force, only the base is
may be transferred to orbital bases, but they will displace the
tonsidered under altack in an independent altack. 1'he defense
values of the Task Force conbat unitx are not added to the defense
order to make Tom for ground troops, but may not destroy
value of the base, in this case. Task Forces on the base are not
ground troops to make room for supply, Marine Cohorts do not
affected by hase disruplion. if the ground base is destroycd, all
displace supply at orbital bases. Marines and groundl forces do not
uniis in the Task Force are irmmcdiately disrupled.
displace supply al ground bases.
39

--- PAGE 39 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
ORBITAL DROPS
To off-load at a ground or orbital base. the transport riusl
transport. The supply carried by the Legion or Auxilia Headquar+
enter an orbital segment containing an undisrupted base. If the
ters cannot be used #ntil the headquarters has disembarkcd and is
In every type of military canpaign, troops land under hostile
Iransport fulfills these conditisns, ihe forces may be transferrcd
fio longer on a transport or orbital basc.
fire. Especially the initial invasion troops, and often reinforce-
to the base's location.
Onte landed, the Task Force functions as a normal unit. Units
When transfered io a ground base, all forces must immedi-
disrupted during the drop should be placed in a Task Force with a
ments, are not simply transferred to a friendly planetside base. All
ately either be placed in a Task Force already present at the base.
landings are dangerous. Troop and equiprmeni losses are cxpected,
headquarters unit, or landed in a hex containing a Task Force with
or have a Task Force formcd arount them. Noti-grav forces do not
but losses can be kcpt to a minimum.
a headquarters unit. Otherwisc, thc disrupted unit will he unable to
have 1o be part of a Task Force.
defen itsclf until it receives orders to wiahdraw.
DROPPING TROOPS
DROPPING SUPPLIES
BASE LIMITATIONS
During ihe Defender or Attacker Space Comhat Phase, irans-
puris with an orbital drop mission inusl enter the orhilal segment
Supplies can be dropped dircctly to Legion or Auxilia Head-
These rutes consider naval and Legion bases to be virtually
corresponding to the planetary area in which they wish to land the
quarters in the same manner as to ground unis, as fung as the
identical, however, the two facilities require different repair and
troops. Only grav or Marine units may be landed by orbital drops.
transpxrts with the supply are in the appropriale planelary area. The
maintenance equipment.
Garrison Legions and Militia Regitmetits can only he landed on
player shouid place the Transport Squadron in the Orbital Drop
Legion bases are primarily organized to maintain ground
friendly bases. using a supply mission.
Holding Box. The Transport Squadron is subject to the same
forces. and have limited ability to support fighters. Class GL!
Transpornis attempting to land troops must survive att acks by
atlacks by fighters as is a dropping ground unit. If thc Transport
bases can only expend supply to rearm, reorganize. and rebuild
Syuadron is disrupted, it retums to its Task Force IHolding Box and
fatigucd, disrupted, or destroyed ground units. Class GL2 bases
opjxosing forces assigned sector defense missions. Disrupted trans-
ponis rctum imnediately to their Task Force Holding Box and may
the supplies are not dropped.
not land troops. Thc ttoops are removed frotn the Task Force
At the end of the Supply Phase, any undisrupted transports in
Class GL3 and GL4 bases can expend supply to reorganize
Holding Box and placed in the Orhital Drop Holding Box of the
the planctary urca's Orbital Drop Holding Box can transfer sup-
disrupted Fighter Flights in its sector. Ground Legion hasex
plies to the Legion Headquarters.
cannot remove fatigue from starships.
appropriate planetary area.
Al thc cnd of the Ground Combat Phasc, any unused enemy
Dismantled bases can be transferred in the samc manrer to
Naval bases, or trarisports functioning as orbial bases, may
Fighter Flighis assigned a ground support mis.sion in the satme
any friendly Task Force containing Constnuction Engineer Centu-
(nly expend suppiy to rearm and rcorganize naval units.
ries.
Any class or type of base may ream, reorganize, or rebuild
planetiry area as the transport ettempting the drop imay rmake an
fatigucd, disrupted, or destrnyedf Afarinc Cohorts.
ittack agiinst the dropping forces. l'se the cunhal resoluriot
BUILDING GROUND BASES
system. tumpuring the lotal attuck +alue l lh lightees lu the
deftese t alue of the dropping Cohorts. Neither play er ay make
[.egion and naval ground bases with ratings I, 2, ur 3 can be
Planetary Support Base Manufacluring
a tolumn shift. The lighter's du not iake a saving rull. rtgardless
constructed on ihe planetary map by Constnuction Engineer Cen-
Prefeet's campaign gane allows pliayers tu inereise the
f the comhat result. The dropping forees must make nunal suving
turies. Only me base may be constructed in a hex.
standard supply nurmally available fronm a planclury hase threugh
rolls against a target nunber mudified by the conihat result. Note
Any Rating l, 2, or 3 base can be transported accortling to the
manufacturing. Planetary supporl hases (Gil4) maly have thw
that all AR. DR. CA, aned BT relreat results are ignorcd. bul silving
Transporting Bases rules, p. 35. in the space gamne. Gr und bases
rolls are nade against target numbers using those mdifiers.
can be off-loaded at a friendly ground base, then transferred to a
ment as component parts and assemhle the paris inio finished
Disrupled units continue the drop. Destroyed units are retnoved.
friendly Task Force according to he Engineer Centurics rules, p.
goods. On-site assembiy allows larger quantities of useful mate-
During thc Task Force Adjuslinent Phase, the owning player
18, in the planetary game.
rial to be shipped per ton of transportcd mass.
imust form all dropping units into Task Forccs. T'he pl:nyer docs not
Bases may also be transfered, using an orbital drop, to any
Players choosing to use this option wil increase the number
need a headquarters unit to do this.
of supply points deiivered by a transport traveling directly from
Task Force containing Constructiont Engineer Centuries, as de-
Ar the end of the Supply Phase, the player should place his
thc oulsysteni area by 25 percent, rounding fractions down. This
scribed above.
Task Forccs in any hex in the planelary area. A Task Forcc cilnnot
Once transferred, a base is placed in the hex in which the Task
supply advanlage is restricted to transports moving direclly fron
be landet in a hex with an active enemy basc, Task Force. or in an
the outsysten area to discourage players frotn transferring the
Force is located. The base is considered to be disrupted until
enemy unit's active zOc. It may land in the sarme hex as a friendly
sarne supply points back and forth and increasing the number of
reorganized in the normal manner during the next Supply Phase
Task Force, but the two forces must imumediately combine into one.
The opposing player should be inforimed of the base's location
availahle points with each transfer.
Icgion and Auxilia Headquarters always land with full sup-
upon deployment.
ply. which is not considered a part of the suppiy ciurictl by thc
40

--- PAGE 40 [OCR] ---
PREFEC
MAP SET-UP
I' the opposing player's forces have nlat heen detectcd, then
Orbital Segment Comhat
Afler hoth players have choscn thcir forccs, set up the inap
those forces may bc deployetl anywhere un Column o! xx. Col-
If the combat is tuking pluce ii n orhitul segment, the ma
on which the combat will take place. The configuration of the inap
umn 26xx, or Row xx 14of Map 1, wih any hcading. Thcsc forces
shceis are laid out as shown.
is detennined by whether or not the farces invofved in the conbat
may have a starting velocily of up  the mexinum thrust of thcir
are delecled. and if thc baltle is taking placc in an urbilal stgnicnt
Iowest thrusting unit.
or in decp space.
After all forces arc deployed, Leviathan combal hegins.
The leviathan gamc ends when all the phasing player's forccs
Deep Space Interception
have either exitcd the inap olf ome of thc cuges. jumpcal intu T'-
If the combal is a deep spacc interceptim, both imap shccts
spilce, or hive hcen destroyed.
are laid out as shown.
The phasing playermust exit his Iorces off Row x x 14 of Map
2 in order lo perlorm altack., Hs alluck, rceun, ground support.
suppiy, or orbital trop missions. Unils exited olf aty other side 
the map have hroken off and cannol be uscd to accomplish these
missions. Units with spine cracks, struclural collapse. SLD de-
stroyed. plant destroycd, or ship destroyed resulis alst cannot be
Ifex Row (0l xx is thc grond. O2xx is thc atinospherc, anu
used to accomplish these rmissions.
3x x represcnts the interfacc, Ground bases tnusi be placed in th.
Properly exited forces with attack, HS attack. ground sup
center of the map at Hex (01l 14. Orbital bases are placed anywher
port, supply. or orbital drop missicns can then be placed in the
in Hex Row u7xx. It the orhital segment contains more than ons
orbital segment of thc playcr's choice. Note hal thosc forces may
basc. all buses arc placcut on the sanie number hex. but divider
havc to fight an adefitional hatilc in the orhital negmcnt before
cvenly between thc two map shects. Forexainple. ifiwo bases ar
accomplishing their tmission. This battle can be renolved using
presenl, thc playcr imay place onc un Map I, Hex o711, and on
either Prefect ( sce Leviathan to Prefert Conversion) or Levia-
on Map 2, Hex (1711.
The phasing player's forces set up first anywhere on Hex
than. Players using Leviathan rulcs for the battle use the currcnt
The pposing player placcs his ships and fighicrs anywher
Row xx(l of the map with iny heading. All fighters begin the
record shects of thc surviving force. Missile reloads anl othcr
on or below Hex Row I3xx al any hcuding and a stining veloci1!
game launchcd. If thc phasing player's forces are assigned a high
repairs ure not allcowed until the units have returned to a friendly
up to their maximum thrust. Al fighlers bcgin the game launched
specd attack mission. those forces may begin the game with a
base, and that base expends sufficient supply pints to rearin.
The phusing plityer then deploys his forces. Undetected force.
starting velocity of up to two times the thrust rating of their lowest
reorganize, or rebuild the unilx of the Task Force.
nay bc piuced on or ahove Hex Row 2oxx. If thc forcc is delcclcd
thrusting unit. If any other mission is assigned, the force muy
Surviving forccs assigned a recon fnission lhul survivcd u
it must bc placcd on Hex Row 26xx. The phaising player's forcu
bcgin the galme with a starting velxity of up io the thrust rating
deep space interception and properly exited the bourd may
inay have any heuding and a strting velcity up to its maximun:
of iheir lowest thrltsting unit. All the phasing player's uniis must
perform the recon missior as munal. tSec Lct iathan to Prefert
thrunt. Forces assigned a high speec attitck mission may have :
have the sane starting velocily.
Cenversiun. !
slarling vcicxity of al lcasi their thrust rating. but no more thal
The opposing player sets up second. If the opposing player's:
[nlercepted forces execuling t withdrawal ifusl enter T-
twice their thrust raling. All lighters hegin thc game launched.
forces have bcen detected by thc phasing player's foreces, then the
space to cotnplete their withdrwal. If forces exit off a map edge
After all forces ure deployed. leviathan combat begins
opposinig player's forces must set up on Hex Row xx F4 of Map
without jumping into T-space. another map should he placed
The leviathan gitme ends when all the phasing player's force:
2, with any heading. These forces may have a starting velocity of
againsl that edgc. and the cornhat continues until iull of the
havc cither exited thc mip off one of the edges. jumped into T.
up to the maximun thrust of their lowest thrusting unit.
withdrawing forces are either dcsiroyed or have jumpe'd inlo T-
spuce, r hecn desttuyed. Frrtes cxited olf any sidc havc broke!
space. (See Leviathan to Prefect tonvcrsion.)
off ankl canot he used tu Iulfill orbital drop, ground support, o
supply missions. Ships that hve spine crac ks, structural colfapse.
St.D destroyed. plant tesiroyed. or ship desiroyed results aist.
cinnot he used tn uceonmnlish the nission.
42

--- PAGE 41 [OCR] ---
RULES.
PREFECT TO CENTURION UNIT CONVERSION
PLANETARY COMBAT USING
When the Leviathan cornbat has been resolved, the phasing
The first step in resolving planelary battles using Centurion
player's remaining forces nay attempt to accomplish their as-
CENTURION
is lo convert the Prefect forces into a representative mix of
signed mission. Forces with an orbital drop, ground suppor, or
Centurion units. Each player should look at the combat arnd
supply mission that did no break off from combat can be used pcr
Any individual combal in Prefect bctween opposing planct -
suppon forces assigned to the Task Forces involved in the combat
he Prefect rules for these missions. Forces that broke off the
based Task Forces can he resoived using the Centurion rules.
and select a numher of Centurion uniis hased on the chart below.
engagermient cannot be used to accomplish the assigned missionis.
Prefect players may take a representative force of ground and
The conversion ratio is approximately 9 to 1, where each Centu-
(See Leviathan to Prefect Conversion.)
grav vehicles and play out the baltle on lwo siandard Centurion
rion unit represents a Century of a similar type of vehicle.
maps. Because these battles may deploy large numbers of forces,
Divide the Defender's nurnber of Centurion units in half
it is recommended thal only very importani battles be played out
LEVIATHAN TO PREFECT CONVERSION
(rounding up) if the defending Task Force is detected and the
When Leviathan combat ends, the playcrs must translate he
using this system.
attacking force is not. Divide the Attacker's numberof Centurion
Unless otherwise noted, use all applicable Centuriun rules.
results back into Prefect units, This is not a straight reversal of the
units in half (rounding up) if the Attacker's Task Force is detected
Prefect to Leviathan conversion. The players must deternine if
including all optional rules.
their ships are considercd to be destroyed, disrupted, or simply
fatigued by the Leviathan action, according to the folowing rules.
The fatigue level of the Task Force increases per the Prefect
rules. Fatigue level does not, however, depend on the level of
damage the ships took during the course of the Leviathan game.
The Task Force relurns to Prefect with all the ships with which
it hegan the combat, including those that broke off. Destroyed
ships and fighter elements are removed from the Task Force
Holding Box and placed in the Dcslruyed Naval Unit Box of the
Outsystem Area Chart. Ships and fighters that are considercd
disrupted as defined below are forticd into a new Task Force in
the segment as normal.
Ships of class BB, CA. FGV, and DDV, as well as all bascs
that have a ship destroyed, spine cracks. tr struciural collapst
resuit, are considered desiroyed. If the ship or base suffered
internal damage, it is considered disrupted.
Pursuii, Defense, and Transpurt Squadrons are considerett
disrupled if less than half their ships are destroyed as defined
above, or have taken internal damage. If more than half their ships
are destroyed or have taken intemal dainage, the Syuadron is
considered destroyed.
Supply points are iost whenevcr a transport is destroyed, as
defined above. Supply points are considered to be evenly divided
between the ships in the Squadron, and so the loss of a single
Iransport will result in a proportional loss of supply, Each tratis-
port loss must result in the loss of at ieast one supply point.
Cohorts and Centuries carried by transports are considered
destroyed if the Transport Squadron is destroyed. The Cohort or
Century is only disrupled if the Transport Squadron is disrupted
by one or more of its ships being destroyed.
Bases cartied by transports are considered destroyed if thc
Transport Squadron is destroyed or disrupted.
43

--- PAGE 42 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
anid the defeniding force is not. If both Attacker and Defender are
cither detected or not detected, make ro change in the unit mix.
PREFECT/CENTURION UNIT CONVERSION
Players shouid take care to mark on thc Centurion record
Lt. Gray
Med. Gray
Hy. Gray
Armored
Combat
Air/Space
Armored
Militia
sheet which units represent the combat Cohorts or Centuries
Marine
CW/RL
Arnor
Grav Inf
Armor
Armor
Gray Art
Eng
Defense
Regiment
engaged in the batle. The status of those units at the end of the
Viper
Centurion game will deternine the status of the Prefect Cohorts
Wolverine
or Cenluries ahey tcpresent.
Liberator
if a base is preseni in the delending Task Force's hex, a
Spartius
number of Defence Installations (Centurion, p. 39) are added to
Deliverer
the mix. Consult the table below to determine the number of
B. Inf
insiallalions available, based on the type of ground facility in the
Pedden
hex.
Eradicator
Constructor
Ground Facility
Number of Defence
Cyclone
Type
Installations
Agitator
GL1
Harasser
GL2
Jaguar
GL3
Sterling
12
GnI
Halberd
GN2/3
G. Inf
GN4
GNS
Lt. Gray
Med, Gray
Combat
Hy. Grav
Armored
Armored
Air/Space arrison
GN6
TOG
Armor
Eng
Armor
Armor
Gray Inf
Marine
Defense
Gray Art
Legion
Lupis
Aeneas
The defending player may select any of the four types of
Horatius
defence installations listed on page 39 of Centurion. Each
Romulus
defense installation is assigned thrce squads of ground infantry.
Trajan
Units suffering one level of faligue havc no missiles avail-
B. Inf
able. Units at two levels of fatigue have no missiles and have only
Pompey
7s percent (rounded up) of their rated amor on all sides. Units
Scipio
suffering three levels of fatigue have rio missiles and have only S0
Rermus
perccnl ol their raled armor.
Hasta
28
Clodius
26
Headquarters and Support Centuries
Kershaw
Hearlquarlers. Construction Engineer, and Signal Centuries
Vindicta
are not listed in thc above conversion charts and should not be a part
Reginus
of the force mix selected, These units have no tactical significance
G. Inf
28
in the Centurion game, though their presence at the operational
Ievcl can significanily affec1 the Centurion game set-up.
Cormbat Engineer Centuries are represented by one engineer
vehicle. while Air/Space Defense Centurics are represented by
Iwo air-defense-tuquipped units.
44

--- PAGE 43 [OCR] ---
RULES
Forest
MAP SET-UP
Artillery Cohuris
Tetain Mxlification: All lake hcxcs ate heayy woods, all
Just as the forces invulved in lle gatmc ire ieprescntecl by
Artillry Cohoits in a Task Force with other tounbat unils to)
Sircam hexes are light woods. All Elevation Lcvel 1 and 2 hexes
Centurion units, the maps used in Centurion represent the
nol use thc vehicles available in the Centurion gamc. Instead.
are light woods, and all Elevation Level 3+ hexes are heavy
each assigned Artillery Cohort provides thrce fire missions per
terruin on which the batile will be foughi, and are based on the
wtods.
typc of lerrain prescnt in thc Defender's hex. In order lo provide
turn to is friendly units. If a player's force is operating at half
sufficient variation in terrain, the prinled tcrrain featurcs on thc
strength, (sec ahove) then only one mission is allowed per turn.
Centurion maps will represent thc following terrain features.
 Ground Support
Clear
In the campaign game, naval forces with ground support
Terrain Modification: ignare all contour lines
missions may support a friendly ground Tausk Force. For each
Fighter Flight present, the player receives lwo fighters of tine
appropriatc type: one if his forces were detecled and are operating
at half strength. For each BB or CA present, the player receives
1wo laser fire support missions for the game, per the rules on page
43-44 of thc Centuriun rule bok. Only one laser fire support
mission is availablc if forces are opcraling at half strength.
Missile barrages are not available.
Defense and Pursuit Squadrons provide one laser fire sup-
Water
pott mission for the game from cach DD or FG type ship present
Terrain Modification: Ignore all terrain features. Vehicles
(see Prefect to Leviathan Conversiun). The TOG player rc-
grounding in these hexes are considered to havc grounded in
ceives support from one Cingufum. If the player forces were
detected and are operating at half strength, divide the number of
water (see Ceniurion. p. 1S).
ships in half as well as removing thc TOG player's Cingithm!
support, if applicable.
If starships are present, add an additional Spartius (CW/Rl.)
or Romulus (TOG). This vehicle represents ihe naval fire conlro)
Raugh/Broken/Crater
officer assigned to the unit, as descrihed on page 43 of thc
Terrain Modification: All Heavy Woods hexes are rubble.
Centurion rulc book.
all River hexes are rubble at Eleyation Level -I, &nd all l.ake
hcxes are tubble al Elcvation Level -2.
Centtrion Assignment and Troop Quality
A Centurion mus1 be assigned to have overall command of
he player's forces, per Centurion, p. 33. If the player's force has
grav tanks, APCs, or artillery vehicles, the Centurion in command
has.a Leadership Rating of 2. Otherwise, the Ceniurion has a
Leadership Rating of 1.
Troop Quality is assigned to each Ceniury/Cohort/Rcgiment/
If conbat is laking place in an urban center. the Defending
: Legion represented in the batle. The vehicles and infantry repre-
pliayer should place twenty Building counters on the map. Five of
. senting those unis have the sarme level quality. All Militia Regi-
thc huildings art Elevation Level 1, AP 10, five are Level 2, AP
ncnts, Garrison Lcgions, and defense installation infantry squads
20, five are Level 3, AP 20, three arc Level 4, AP 30. one is Level
are considered Green. All other units, including supporling fightcrs
4, AP 30. and one is Level 6, AP 30. The playcr should set up the
rd defence installation crews, are considered Regulars.
buildings on the south map in the maner of his choice, but each
Note that players should use the triorale check and with-
counler must he adjacent lo al least iwn other Bnilding counters.
dawal rules on page 42 of' the (.enturiun rule houk.
45

--- PAGE 44 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
If the players have friendly dcfense instalations present on
Retreat, Breakthrough, and Counterattack Results
Next, if the defending player has a friendly basc located in
Both players now add up the tctal Scenario Point values of
the imap sheer, and the battle does not represent a Dcfender
his Task Force's hex, defence installations may be placed any-
counleraction, all forces may he set up as hidden units, per the
all their destroycd vehicles and infanlry units, including units that
where on the south miap if the playcr is the Defender for the tum.
exiled thc map without failing a morale check, but not including
Hidden Units rule on page 41 of Centurion.
or the nonh map if the player is the Attacker for the turn. Players
Orbital starships involved in ihe action arc handled abstractly.
destroyed bases or destroyed naval ground support. Divide the
may only place one defetse installation per hex.
Attacker's total by the Defender's lolal. Compare the resulting
but fighters with ground support missions involved in the battle
should also be sel up. The Interceptor miap is laid out as shown on
ratio lu the table bclow to determine the combal results.
FORCE SET-UP
page 49 of Centurion. The Defending player sets his forces up on
After all forces have been selected and the maps laid out, both
Hex Column xx01 of the left map, with any heading and a starting
players place their forces on the maps. The areas where each player
veiocity of up to the ship's SOT. The Attacking player then sets up
RETREAT/BREAKTHROUGH CONVERSION
sets up are delermined by ihe type of combat being represcnted,
Ratio
Effect
his ships anywhere on Hex Column xx 14, with any heading ant a
either a Defender counteraction or a norrnal attack.
1 to 3
CA
starling velocity of up lo the ship's SOT.
If the Centurion game represents a Defender counteraction.
1 to 2
AR
If fighters are present, use the Interceptor Integration rules.
the Attacking player's forces sct up first, anywhere along Hex Row
1 to 1
No effect
pages 45-49, Centurion.
x xol ofthe north map. The Defender's forces set upnext, anywherc
2 to 1
DR
Aftcr hoth sides set up, play proceeds as iormal until onc side
along Hex Row xx 14 of the south map. All vehicles may havc any
3 to 1
BT
has withdrawn all his forces off the map, or until all forces from one
heading, and a starting velocity up to maximum thrust. Players may
side have been destroyed. Units may only ex it the board by faiting
choose to begin with iheir infantry sguads disnounted or mounted.
a rmorale check. Units that exit without failing  morale check are
1f thc Centurion game reprcscnts a normal allack, the
Ihesc resulls are appliced 1o the Prefect Task Forces and bases per
considered deslroyed.
Defender's forces set up first, anywhere along Hex Row xx 14 o?
thc Prefcct rules.
the south map. The player may expend digging charges prior lo the
Note that Prefect combat support units ihat were not repre-
CENTURION TO PREFECT CONVERSION
beginning of the game and begin with his units dug in. Thc
sented by units in the Centurion game (Headquarters, Signai,
To convert Centurion rcsulis back to Prefect, immcdialely
Allacking player's forces set up second, anywhere along Hex Row
Coristnuction Enginecrs, and Artillcry) must make normal saving
xxol of the north map, Ail vehicles may have any hneading, and a
increase the fatigue level of all Task Forces involved in the combat
rolls lo avoid disruplion. Units thal were prcsent on the Centu-
by one. then determine if there was a retreat. brcakthrough or
starting velocity up to maximum thrust. The players may choose to
rion map do not have to make this saving roll.
counterattack resuli, and if individual units werc disrupled.
begin with their infatry squads dismounled or mounled.
Saving Roll Conversion
Both players now review thc siatus of cach of the vehicles
and squads representing the various units involved in the combat.
Determine whether each unit made a successful or failed Prefect
saving roll. indicating a BT, CA, disruptet or destroyed result. If
So percent or more of the vehicics anid infantry squads that make
up the unit are destroyed (Centurion, p. 26) or have taken intemal
dirnagc. other than to ballistic protection, the unit is disrupted.
Note that even if all of the represcntative units are destroyed, the
Prefect unit they represent is orly disruptcd.
Baises are considered to be disrupted if S( percent or more of
the defense installations are desiroyed or have taken internal
damagc tn the lutet.
lt is possible lo disrupt an Air/Space Dcfense or Combat
Engineer Century using this method, even though, using the
Prefect resulution systenm, these units could only be disrupted by
a Bf ur CA rcsult.

--- PAGE 45 [OCR] ---
RULES
every Combal Cohort assigned to the unit, the player's unit receives
SCENARIO DESIGN
the exact type. The players should sitnply dccide on a rcasonahle
one Prefect Cohort of the appropriate type. Each Manus or Legion
mix ot Auxilias and [ndependent Reginients.
The chart bclow is not an exhiluslivc listing. For othcr
Headquarters on ihe TO&F chan gives the player's unit one
Prefect focuses on the batties fought in the Africannus syslen.
cquivalent Prefect headquarters uni. Renegade lcgions with a
unit types. players should study the appropriate 'TO&F chan in
primarily on the planet of Ku C'rassus. However, using FASA's
reinforced Manus Headquarters receive a Manus-plus counter.
Ground Organization and apply the following guidelines. For
Shannedam County sourcebook, players can set up nurmerous battles
and scenarios in other systems-ankd on oiher planels.
Players simply select a syslem. then foliow the rules below
to set up the system map, planetary map, and allocate the forces
available to each side.
Pursuit Syuadron
Pursuit Squadron
Pairol/Dcferst Squaciron
Defense Squadron
SYSTEM MAP SET-UP
Long Range Pairol/Harasscr Syuadron
CA + Defcnsc Squadron
Each hahited system presenled in the Shannedam County
Aggressor/Battleship Squadron
BB + 2 CA + 2 Defense Sualrons
sourccbook has a system data block which details where the
Light Carrier Squadron
DDy + 2 Pursuit Squadrans
planets, major planetoids, and asteroid belts are located. Note that
-Carrier Patrol Squadron
FGv + 2 Defense Syuadrons
anything in Zone 7 or greater is normally so far away frorn the
Carrier Strike/Raiding Squadron
2 FGV + 1 CA + 2 Defense Squadrons
planet that it can be considered in the outsystem area.
Heavy Carrier Strike Squadron
2 FGV + BB + 2 CA + 2 Defense Squadrons
All minor and medium plancloids are ignored, though aster-
Fighter Wing
15 Independent Fighter Flights
oid belts are not. Ignore any major moon in orbit around a planet.
PLANET MAP SET-UP
The major habitable planel in the system can simply he
COMM(NWEALTH/RENEGADE LEGON FORCES
Iransfertcd from the nap in the Shannedam County sourcehok
Sig
C Eng
Eng
HQ L Sup
TF
Hy.
Inf
Art
Med.
I.t.
HQM+ HQM
to the feverse side of the Ku Critssus map provided in Prefect.
L.egio11s
Each square on the planet mip torresponds tt 9 hexes. and i.
18
simply superimposed on thc blank planetary rap.
Sirike legio
18
Inf lcgion
As usual, the right-musl squire ulong the euualur m the
18
Shannedam Couniy planel mup is attually eo-lecated with the
KeskRith lcgio
18
B'tkkal l.t'gim
left-most syuare.
MLITARY FORCES AND BASES
Auxilia/Regiments
AcR/Baufin Reg
B'ekkal Arm Reg
in the Military Assets section of the system data block in thc
Shannedatt County sourcebook. The type and lcation of-all
TERRAN OVERLORI GOVERNMENT FORCES
bases is listed. Bases hegin the game with full supply.
C Eng
Eng
Sig
AD
HQ I. Sup
TF
Inf
Art
Hy.
It.
Med.
HQM+ HQ M
Naval Squadrons provide the following Prefect forccs.
Legions
18
All starting forces should carry a full complement of fight-
Strike Legion
18
Int Legion
ers, evenly divided bctween all six available types.
Ground force L.egion types are listed below. These forccs
at
can easily be converted to Prefect, as can Militia Regiments and
Auxilia
Garrison Legions. Auxilia and Independent Regiments are more
Heavy Assault
difficult to quantify. tecausc Shannedam County does not list
Recon
47

--- PAGE 46 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
LEVIATHAN STATS FOR OTHER PREFECT FORCES
GL4: Planetary Support Base
GLl: Cohort Support Base
ON3/GN3: Mediun Fighter Base
Shields: 5
Shields: 3
Class: Destroyer
Armor: 200
Armor: 50
Thrust: 0
Weapons:
Weapons:
Shields: 2 (all sides)
Type
Range
Type
Range
Armor: 50 (all sides)
46
2-3
2-3
7--10
7-10
1-15
16-20
46
11--15
5 16-20
Weapons:
Type
18
Location
25
20
15
28
23
100 37.5/30
50 37.5/10
Range
25
15
2-3
23
20
18
28
46
7-10
100 37.5/30
50 37.5/5
11-15 16-2
20
15
28
25
25 22.5/5
100 37.5/30
Turrets:
18
15
25
23
2()
25 22.5/5
28
100 37.5/30
25 22.5/5
Turrets:
Type G Missile System: 3 shots al 50 Poinls
Turrets:
12
12
GL2: Manus Support Base
Type E Missile System: 3 shots at 150 Points
Shields: 4
ONl/GNl: Furt Oasis Class Post
Type C Missile System: I shot at i00 Points
Armor: 100
Fighter's: 72 at 300 tons
Weapons:
Size: 1 hex (treat as a Fighter Squadron)
Crew: 717
Type
Range
Thrust: 0
Passengers: 30
2-3
4.6
7--10
16-20
11-15
Armor: 10
Marines: I Century
18
15
13
10
100 37.5/10
CRA: 3
01
15
13
100 37.5/5
LRA: 2
Missile Attack Value: t)
Turrets:
Fighters: 6 at 3() tons
Type D Missile System: 3 shots at 1 Poinls
ON2/fN2: Small Ship Post
Size: I hex [lreat as Fighler Flight)
GL3: Legion Support Base
Thrust: 0
Shields: $
Armor: lo
Armor: 2(0!
CRA: 20
Weapons:
1.RA: IS
Tape
Range
Wlissile Attack alue: ()
2-3
4-6
7-10
11-15
16-20
Fighters: 6 at 3(M0 1on
23
20
1(0 37.5/25
13
18
10
100 37.5/10
Turreis:
12
12
Type E Missile System: 3 shots ut I5n Points
48

--- PAGE 47 [OCR] ---
RULES
LEVIATHAN STATS FOR OTHER PREFECT FORCES (Continued)
Light Transpert Squadron (consisis of 1o ships with the
I N4/GN4: Medium Ship Base
ONh: large Ship Base
folluwing stats)
Class: Baltlenhip
Class: Cruiser
Class: Corvette
Thrust: 0
Thrust: 0
Thrust: 3
Shields: 4 (all sidcs)
Shields: 3 (all sides)
Shields: I (all sides)
Armor: 2(0 (all sides)
Armor: 1( (all sides)
Armor: l0 (all sides)
Weapons:
Weapons:
Range
Type
Locatior
Weapons: None
T+pe
1.ocation
Range
11--15
2-3
46
7-10
16-20
16-20
11-15
2-3
46
7-10
Turrets:
18
23
20
25
28
100 37.5/30
50 37.5/5
18
23
20
28
25
100 37.5/30
50 37.5/5
18
25
2X
15
1(X) 37.5/30
50 37.5/5
20
15
28
25
100 37.5/30
Extras: Antigrav
50 37.5/5
20
28
15
100 37.5/30
15
23
28
100 37.5/30
Medium Transport Squadron (consists of 5 ships with the
Turrets:
23
20)
25
15
100 37.5/30
following stats)
23
25
2X
15
1(x 37.5/30
Class: Destroyer
I'urrets:
Theust: 2
ighters: 24 11 300 ton5
Shields: 1 (all sides)
Crew: 2.500
Armor: 50 (all sides)
Marines: I Century
Wcapons: Nonc
Type D Missile System: 3 shets at I00 Puinis
ONs/GNs: Fighter wing Command
Turrets:
Fighters: Up lo 72 at 300 tons
Crew: 2.717
Class: Frigate
....
Marines: 1 Cohorl
Thrust: 0
Shields: 2 tull sides)
Small Craft: I up to I.oto tons
Armor: xo (all sidcs)
Extras: Antigrity
Weapons:
T+pe
I,cation
Range
4-6
7-10
11-15
2-3
16-20
50 37.5/5
50 37.5/5
50 37.5/5
50 37.5/5
Turrets:
Fighters: 360 al 310 to115
(rew: 2.500)
Marines: I Churt
49

--- PAGE 48 [OCR] ---
 PREFECT
Index
Game Set-Up
27. 42
Deep Space Interceplion
8. 37
Air/Space Defense Century
36
Grund Bases
34. 36
AR 14
Defender Comhat
8, 10
GROUND SUPPORT
、24
15
Artillery
Dcfender Counteractions
23
Groundt Support Missions
38
Asteroid Belt 2!
Defender Insystem Moveincnt Phase
Defender Movcmcit
Altack 23. 30
13
Defender Retrcats
28
Attack Procedure
Attack Value 6
Defender Space Combal Phase
23
Hs Attack
23. 30
37
Defender T-space Movenient Phase
23
Attacker Insystem Movenent Phuse
Defense Value
28
Attacker Retreats
23
Detection12
Attacker Space Combat Phase
Independent Attacks
39
22, 37
Detection Reaction
25
Attacker T-space Moveineni Phase
Isystein Movenent
26
35
Attacking a Base
Delection Shifts13. 28
Determining the Conbat Ratio
Disrupted Uniis
11. 15. 29
DR 14
LAF 7
Base Limitatirns
40
Dropping Supplies
40
Legion Base
7.
Breakthrough
28
Dropping Troops
40
Legion Base Countcrs
Breakthrough
14
Legion/Auxilia Record Sheet
BT
¥14
leviathan 41
Building Ground Bases
40
Leviathan Stats for Oiher Prelect Forces
41
Engineer ceniuries
18
Leviathan to Prefect Conversion
43
ESM
L.ow-Altitude Flight Mode  9
CA 14
36
Campaign Ganme
37
Campaign Sequence of Play
Fatiguc 7. 15. 21. 32
Marine Cohorts
34
Fighter Flight Transportaiio?
17
24
Capturing A Base
Mission 21
Fighters
34
Capturing Bases
21
Mission Assignment Phase
22
Centurion  43
Forest. 5
Mission Assignnents
23
Centurion Assignment and Tronp Quality 45
Mission Resolulion
29
Clcar 5
Combat Mode
COMBAT phuse
13

--- PAGE 49 [OCR] ---
RULES
'Movement 7
Moveinent Fffecis
12
T-space Delection
Reanning
16. 33
25
:Movenment Phase
8.9、24
T-Spice Movemcnt
23. 30
24
Recon
Task Force 7
Record Sheets
Task Forcc Adjusirment Phase
Rcorgunizing
17.33
17, 23. 32
N-Space Detection
27
Task Forces
28
21
Resolving Conbat
Naval Base  21
Tempo Phase
15
17. 34
Retreats
Naval Mission Assignnent Phase
37
Tenpo Phase
8. 23
Retreats
New Orbital Bases
35
Tcrrain Effects
Rough
12
Non-Gray Forccs
Terrain Effects (n Movement
Terrain Features
Transporting Bases  35
Saving Rolls
14. 29
Transporting Marine Cohorts
34
Opposing Sector Defenses  32
Scenario Desigint 47
Transporting Troops
39
Orhital Bases
35
Sector Comnbat Chart
19
Turn 7
Orbital Drop
24
Sector Defense
23. 31
Orbital Drops
40
Sequence of Play
8. 22
iOtbital Segment Combat
42
Sig 7
Overrunning
Uni iD
SIG/ESM Vslues
Unit Size
Signal Units12
Lirhan
26
Spiuce Conhat Phase
Space game
IParent Unit 6
19
Stacking
Planetary game
10. 26
Starships
36
21
Planetary Map
Watt'r
Stuts ('nmters
Planetay mp
Withtriw al
17. 24. 26
Planelary Suppor! Buse Mautuctuting
Suppls 7. 21. 301. 34
Wiihdruwal Phse
8、17
Supply Missinn
24
Planetary Task Force
x. 16、23. 32
Supply Phast
Planetary Unit Couniers
Panetoids  21
Supply Poinms
16. 32
Zones of Control
10
21
Planets
Supply Rccord Track 6
Supported Altacks Against Bases
38
PLAYING THE GAME
Supporting Task Force Combat
43
38
refect To Centurion Unit Conversion
41
System Map
61 
refect to Leviathan Unit Conversion
51

--- PAGE 50 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
TERRAIN AN MOVEMENT EFFECTS
MAXIMUM SUPPLY-PONT STRAGE
REORGANIZING CUST
ON JETECTION ANI COMBAT
Total supply points
Unit 'Type
Suppty Points
Rase Rating
Defense
Detection
Terrain Type
that can be slored
Comhat Units
Blocked?
Cohort Supporl Base tG1)
Factor
Modifier
25
Light Gtav Cohorl
No
Manus Support Base (G2)
Clear
50
Mcdium Grav Cohort
Yes
Legion Support Basc (G3)
Forest
100
Heavy Grav Cohort
Yes
Planctary Supputl Basc (G4)
Urban
[nfantry Grav Cohort
Yes
Legion Headquarters
Rough
15
Artillery Gra Cohort
Yes
Auxilia Headguarters
-3
Sink Hole*
Marine Cohort
+2
Waler
No
Militia Regimcnt
Cralers
Yes
Garrison L.egion
Desen/Luva Flow*
No
Support Unils
Jungle*
Yes
CONSTRUCTION CST TABLE
Air Delense
Mountains/Volcano*
Yes
Supply Cast
Basc
Nurnher of
Counhat Engineer
Swamp *
Type
Construction Enginccr
Conslruclion Centuries
-2 x Rating
Rating
Legion Base
Yes
Signal Century
GL1
-2 x Rating
Rating
Naval Base
Yes
15
ManusfAuxilia Hcadquarters
GL?
+6
Task Forte il LA}
No
50
GI.3
Lgion Headguarters
 For usc with tonversion sysle. puge 43.
TSPACE TRAVELIIME IETECTION
CtABT RESITs
Turns
Mlodifier
I tu 2
2 to 3
3 10 1
in T-space
(or less)
[r mre]
+3
-204: +2
I(+++1
-.3.4/+.3
-.2A/+.3
23
+?
ZAR/+2
1AR/+2
--26A/+4
++
00
-2AR/+4
AR/+I
-1AR/+2
+1/1
67
+1/t
..+++1
1AR/+3
0/+!
+1/[
X-4
+1/-1
+1/03
0/0
1/+3
00
+2/-1 DR
I(3- 1 1
.2
+2/.. IDR
0/+2
+1/0
+1/ -1
+2/. 2DR
2+
-3
+2/- IDR
+2/-2DR
+1/+2
+I+--↓
+1/-1
+3/-213R
+1/+1
+3/ 2DR
+2/-2[R
+1/-R
+++.-+
+3/- 31)R
+1/+1
+3/- 2DR
+3/-3DR
+2/-IDr
+2/-IDR
+ 3/-3B1
10
+3/- 3RT
+3/ -3BT
+2ADR
+2/-2BT
+2/.20R
+3/ 31T
52

--- PAGE 51 [OCR] ---
RULES
CAMPAIGN SEQUENCE OF PLAY
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
REORGANIZATION COST TABLE
Unit
Cost
NAVAL MISSION ASSIGNMENT PHASE
MOVEMENT
BB
ATTACKER T-SPACE MOVEMENT PHASE
COMBAT
CA
ATTACKER INSYSTEM MOVEMENT PHASE
15
SUPPLY
FGV
ATTACKER SPACE COMBAT PHASE
WITHDRAWAL
DDV
DEFENDER T-SPACE MOVEMENT PHASE
TASK FORCE ADJUSTMENT
phs 
DEFENDER INSYSTEM MOVEMENT PHASE
TEMPO
P Sqd
DEFENDER SPACE COMBAT PHASE
TRL
ATTACKER GROUND MOVEMENT PHASE
TRM
DEFENDER GROUND MOVEMENT PHASE AND
1g. Ft. Flight
COMBAT PHASE
Md. Ft. Flight
GROUND COMBAT PHASE
Hvy. Fr. Flight
TASK FORCE ADJUSTMENT PHASE
Marine Cohort
NAVAL SEQUENCE OF PLAY
GROUND WITHDRAWAL PHASE
O/GNI
SUPPLY PHASE
0/GN2
15
MISSION ASSIGNMENT PHASE
TEMPO PHASE
25
0/GN3
ATTACKER T-SPACE MOVEMENT PHASE
0/GN4
50
ATTACKER INSYSTEM MOVEMENT PHASE
100
O/GNS
ATTACKER SPACE COMBAT PHASE
0/GN6
001.
DEFENDER T-SPACE MOVEMENT PHASE
DEFENDER INSYSTEM MOVEMENT PHASE
GL2
15
DEFENDER SPACE COMBAT PHASE
25
TASK FORCE ADJUSTMENT PHASE
L4
50
SUPPLY PHASE
TEMPO PHASE
Ground Unit Type
Supply Poinis
Displaced
15
Legion Headquarters
30
Heavy Amor Cohort
Militia Regimenl
40
Garrison Legion
10
All Other Units
53

--- PAGE 52 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
SCENARIOS
wealth defenders, bul a suicidal counteroffensive by the Renegade 3099th
The planet Ku C'rassus is located at the shoulder" of what is known
as the Caralis-Messana pexket in Shannedam County. Its strategic posi-
Infantry Legion bogged down the TOG ground forces. The Coinmon-
tion provides Rcncgade naval units with a sale staging area enroute to the
wealth Navy cut the TOG ground forces' supply flow to a trickle. Because
hesieged garison on Caralis and Messana. The Terran Overlord Govern-
thc TOG forces have failed to develop an extensive enough systcm of
ment wunts control of the Ku Crassus system lo shut the gates against
ground logistical bases, its abitity to launch and sustain a long, drawn-out
Iuture Renegade reinforcement of those two tenuously-held garrisons.
offensive is minimal, The TOG Legions on Ku Crassus are a formidable
On I0 June 6x30. TOG aeled. TOG Strike and Infantry Legions.
foe, und now. eighteen months later, both sides have reinforced their
supported by Batilcship. Carrier. and Raiding Squadrons, landed on Ku
ground troops and are ready to launch a new offensive.
Crassus. Initially, TOG forees pushed back the Rencgade and Common-
NEW JANOS
Rus y
ndustricl Cehher
LAUA
Mashona
VOLKURT
IMPULSE
TAYZ
DA'VALK
Kroft
ToNTRINA5
OPE' dIal
Kukuak
L.C,M & pi.
[DOLTFLE
Industr ial Cchai
 CRoW CAl
LODE
DEIOP
PYRA
TVEN
vol's
INKT LaM
DRRTO)
Cenker
STAR
HoPe
GTMPAKA
NEWPORT
CAISINK
oustayiy*
HENDERS
KelGg
RoluNru
GE
SHTOTRA
C.M. &PI.
Nebrash"
CALAR'S FOLLY
Derianc
IUSINS SUTHERLAND
Paab
MI$$ION
MUTHRA
YIN
HAMPER
JAcoB'S
Saountuh
CIRIA
STAR
cycuk
AM
Pisal
C.M& P.A.
L.C.M, & P.I,
ol3ipio
ANDERS
MESSANA
SPaRTa HILL
KALAPANA
FAGER
ARRacO
Thapsus
ALCOMT
TYRA
OCCUPATIONAI
CENTER
Ik.. .
SOLIGHT
YEARS

--- PAGE 53 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
Ku Crassus Merchant Marine Supply Group
HOLDING THE LINE
4 Light Transport Squadrons (TRL)
2 Medium Transport Squadrons (TRM)
Amateur military strategists talk of tactics; professionals talk of
2 Pursuit Squadrons (P Sqd)
logistics.
2Medium Fighter Flights Type 1 (FM1)
This axiom is as valid in the 69th century as it was in the 20th,
2 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1 (FHl)
illustrated by the curent situation on Ku Crassus. At six months into the
2 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
inivasion of Shannedam County, the TOG commander has yet to develop
a stable logistical base for his forces on Ku Crassus. The limited storage
Bases
facilities of the main TOG staging base outside Fisherton hoids only thirty
ON4 (Zone 3, 11)
thousand tons of supply. In heavy combat, the two TOG Legions and their
GN3 (Ku Crassus, Orbital Segment/Planetary Area 7)
support troops currently on Ku Crassus could easily consume three times
that amount in a single day. Supplies must come through uninter'upted, or
Outsystem Replacement Rate: 4 units per turn
the TOG forces wil be crushed. But the TOG supply transports must run
the gauntlel of the Commonwealth Navy.
Commonwealth Set-Up
The Commonwealth player is the Defender for the first turn. All
BOARD SET-UP
naval forces, except for the Supply Group, must be formed into Task
This scenario uses orily the Prefect space game. The current loca.
Forces and deployed anywhere on the system map. Only elements of the
tions of the main bases, planets, and planetoids are given below.
44454th Pursuit Squadron may deploy in the Ku Crassus sector. All other
Zone
Planet Narrie
Sector
containing a TOG base. The forces mnay also be deployed in the Functional
Ku Crassus
Naval Unit Box of the Commonwealth Outsystem Area Chart. The Ku
New Mandella
12
Crassus Merchant Marine Supply Group is currently in the Common-
Sizzlestone
wealth outsystem area.
Traverse
12
All bases and transports begin the scenario with their maximum
Maskin Asteroid Belt
carrying capacity of supply.
Spider's Web Asteroid Belt
TOG Forces
Commonwealth Forces
68011th Raiding Squadron
49989th Long Range Patrol Squadrorl
1 Frigate Class Carrier (FGV)
I Cnuiser (CA)
1 Cruiser (CA)
1 Defense Squadron (D Sqd)
2 Defense Squadrons (D Sqd)
3 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL1)
4 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL1)
2 Medium Fighter Flights Type 1 (FM1)
6 Light Fighter Flights Type 2 (FL2)
3 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
5 Medium Fighter Flights Type 1(FM1)
5 Medium Fighter Flights Type 2 (FM2)
44454th Pursuit Squadron
4 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1 (FH1)
1 Pursuit Squadron (P Sqd)
4 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
1 Mediumn Fighter Flights Type 1 (FM1)
2 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
45309th Carrier Squadron
1 Destroyer Class Carrier (DDV)
3009th Royal Commonwealth Attack Wing
1 Pursuit Squadron (P Sqd)
3 Independent Light Fighter Flights Type 1
5 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL.1)
2 Independent Light Fighter Flights Type 2
5 Medium Fighter Flights Type 2 (FM2)
3 Independent Medium Fighter Flights Type 1
2 lndependent Medium Fighter Flights Type 2
991st Cormbat Wing
2 Independent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1
3 Independent Light Fighter Flights Type 1
3 Independent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2
2 Independent Light Fighter Flights Type 2
3 lndependent Medium Fighter Flights Type 1
2 Independent Medium Fighter Flights Type 2
3 Independent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1
2 Independent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2
TOG Merchant Marine Supply Group
6 Light Transport Squadrons (TRL)
3 Medium Transport Squadrons (TRM)

--- PAGE 54 [OCR] ---
SCENARIOS
Bases
also transfer supply directly to the Legions in the field using an orbital drop
GL.2 (Ku Crassus, Orbital Segmen/Planetary Area 9)
mission. The Legion can accept up to 30 points of supply per turn.
GN2 (Traverse, Qrbital Segment/Planetary Area 2)
Transport-to-field supply transfers can be made in Orbital Sectors 3, 4, 8,
GN2 (7. 44)
or 9. If a transport reaches any one of those four orbital segments and is not
GN2 (7, 67)
disrupted, it can off-load up to 30 Supply Points.
Outsystem Replacement Rate: 5 units per turn
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Players are awarded victory points for destroying enemy units and
TOG Set-Up
bases, and for delivering certain levels of supply to the TOG garrison.
The TOG player is the Attacker for the first turn, and sets up after the
Players receive the rebuild cost of any unit their forces destroy as
Renegade player has deployed his Task Forces. All naval forces, except
victory points. At the end of each turn, the players should receive victory
for the Supply Group and the 991 st Combat Wing. must be formed into
points for the delivery of supply according to the following table.
Task Forces and deployed in any sector on the system map not containing
At the end of twelve tums, the players sum up their victory points and
enemy naval bases. Only elements of the 45309th Carrier Squadron may
compare the totals. To determine the Victory Level, divide the highest
begin the scenario deployed in the Ku Crassus sector.
score by the lowest, and consult the Outcome Table below.
Elements of the 45309th may also be deployed in the Functional
Naval Unit Box of the TOG Outsystem Area Chart.
The Supply Group and the 991st must be broken down into nine Task
VICTORY POINTS
Forces, each conitaining one Transport Squadron. Two of the Task Forces
Supply Points Delivered
VP Awarded
are deployed on the system map according to the above rules. Six of the
0-14
5 Vp to Commonwealth
Task Forces are curently in T-space. Place those Task Forces on the T-
15--29
0 VP
space Travet Time Track, with one in Box 1, one in Box 2, and so on to Box
30-44
5 VP  TOG
6. Each Task Force on the T-space Travel Time Track must be assigned
45+
10 VP to TOG
either an orbital drop or supply mission, at the player's discretion. The
remaining Task Force is curtently in the TOG outsystem area.
OUTCOME TABLE
GAME LENGTH
Ratio
High-Scoring Player
Low-Scoring Player
This scenario lasts for twelve turns.
3+
Decisive Victory
Decisive Defeat
2-2.99
Substantial Victory
Substantial Defeat
SPECIAL RULES
1.5-1.99
Marginal Victory
Marginal Defeat
The TOG player is attempting to run supplies to his ground forces on
1.49 or less
Draw
Draw
Ku Crassus. Normal supply transfer rules apply to the GL2 base in Orbita!
Sector 9, which can accept 30 Supply Points per turn. The TOG player may

--- PAGE 55 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
TOG Forces
LIBERATION
Gray Forces
Set-up Area
The Renegades have built up a vast quantity of men and materiel ro
786th Strike Legion*
Area 3, 8, 9 or 4, south of line
liberate Ku Crassus. Two full Legions, fou crack Auxilia, and twenty-
4245th Infantry Legion*
Area 3, 8, 9 or 4, south of line
four Militia Regiments are in position to drive the TOG forces off the
609443 Assault Auxilia*
Area 3, 8, 9 or 4, south of line
planet. The only consideration holding back the Renegades from launch-
3914th Recon Auxilia8
Area 3, 8, 9 or 4, south of line
ing an inmediate assault is that the victory nust be quick. The Common-
wealth navy will only be able to hold off the expected TOG relief force for
Garrison Legions: 4
a shont time, and when the Commonwealth navy is occupied with fighting
off the TOG navy, the Renegades will be cut off from off-planet supply.
All TOG forces must set up within their start line boundaries
BOARD SET-UP
Bases
This scenario uses only Prefect's planetary game. The current
GL2
Ku Crassus, Orbital Segrnent/Planetary Area 9
locations of the ground bases are given on the scenario map on page 8.
Note that Air/Space Defense Centuries are not used in this scenario.
Supply Points Per Turn: See special rules
Renegade Forces
TOG Set-Up
The TOG player is the Defender for the first turn. The player may set
Gray Forces
Set-up Area
up the Task Forces of his major grav units in the planetary areas noted.
199th Renegade Strike Legion
Area 7 or 3, west of line
Legions may not set up on Water hexes.
3099th Renegade lnfantry Legion
Area 4, north of line
All bases and headguarters begin the scenario with their maximum
2nd Armored Cavalry Regiment
Area 2
carrying capacity of supply.
212th Baufrin Regiment
Area 10
543th B'ekkal Regiment
Area 4, north of line
SPECIAL RULES
When the Commonwealth ground offernsive begins, both the TOG
Militia Regirnents: 24
Areas 1, 2, 5, 6, 7. 10
and Commonwealth navies attempt to intervene in the battle. Because it
is smaller, the Commonwealth navy must devote all its resources to
Bases
stopping the TOG navy frorn resupplying the TOG Legioris on the ground,
GL2
Planetary Area 7, see map
using the ships nonnally reserved for escorting supply convoys. The TOG
GL2
Planetary Area 4, see map
navy is able to only sporadically deliver supply to the ground troops, and
GL3
Planetary Area 7, see map
infrequently provide naval ground fire. The Commonwealth navy is also
GL4
Planetary Area 10, see map
unable to deliver supplies. The following special rules reflect this situa-
GL 4
Planetary Area 7, see map
tion.
Supply Points Per Turn: 2 per city controlled
Orbital Bombardment
When the Renegade offensive begins, the TOG Imperial Navy will
Renegade Set-Up
attempt to send forces to bombard the Renegade ground bases. The TOG
The Renegade player is the Attacker for the first tum and sets up first.
The player may set up the Task Forces of his major grav units in the
way to keep the TOG force alive. At the end of each Combat Phase
planetary area noted. Mititia Regiments rnay not set up on Water hexes.
following Turn 1, the TOG player should roll the die. On a result of 1, a
All bases and headquarters begin the scenario with their maximum
TOG Task Force has broken through and temporarily knocked out a
carrying capacity of supply.
Renegade base of the TOG player's choice. The Renegade player cannot
use that base for supply purposes during the following Supply Phase. The
base will be fully functional again the following turn.
Supply
At the end of each Supply Phase, the Renegade player receives two
supply points for each city that he controls. These points are immediately
transferred to any friendly base with a valid grav line of communications
with the city. Supply in excess of the base's storage capacity is lost.

--- PAGE 56 [OCR] ---
SCENARIOS
The TOG's supply situation is more erratic. Fifteen points of supply
will be delivered to the TOG GL2 base, or any other base that the TOG
player controls, at the end of each Supply Phase. Delivered supply in
excess of the base's storage capacity is lost. If the TOG force no longer
controls a base, the supply points at that base are lost.
The TOG player should roll on the following table to determine how
much, if any, additional supply is delivered by orbital drop to any of the
headquarters in the field.
ORBITAL DROP SUPPLY
Die Roll
Result
Each headquarters receives sup-
ply to its maximum level
10 points of supply is transferred
to each headquarters
5 points of supply is transferted
to each headquarters
46
10 points of supply is transfered
to one headquarters
7-10
No supply is transferred
GAME LENGTH
This scenario lasts for ten turns.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
Players are awarded victory points for destroying enemy units and
bases, and for capturing enemy bases and urban centers.
Piayers receive the rebuild cost of any unit their forces destroy as
victory points. The players also receive the rebuild cost of any enemy base
their forces capture as victory points.
Players receive l0 VP for each urban center captured and held at the
end of the game.
A the end of ten turns, the players add up their victory points and
cormpare the totals. To determine the Victory Level, divide the highest
total by the lowest total, and consuit the Outcome Table below.
OUTCOME TABLE
High-Scoring Player
Ratio
Low-Scoring Player
3+
Decisive Victory
Decisive Defeat
Substantial Victory
2-2.99
Substantial Defeat
Marginal Victory
1.5-1.99
Marginal Defeat
Draw
1.49 or less
Draw

--- PAGE 57 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
INVASION
Ku Crassus Merchant Marine Supply Group
4 Light Transport Squadrors (TRL)
2 Medium Transport Squadrons (TRM)
In 6830, TOG launched what it hoped would be a blitz of the
Africannus system. An armada of more than fifty warships, camying two
Grav Forces
Set-up Area
Grav Legions and thousands of fighters, left orbit around Grosianus and
199th Renegade Strike Legion
Ku Crassus
made the junp into T-space. After two weeks of slow, careful T-space
3099th Renegade Infantry Legion
Ku Crassus
movement, the TOG invasion fleet built up speed for their final dash into
543th B'ekkal Regiment
Ku Crassus
Ku Crassus. Three seconds later they materialized around the startled
Cornmonwealth defenders. TOG fighters deployed immediately, opening
Marines: 6 Cohorts
Any Naval Base
safe corridors for the lumbering transports to disgorge thousands of tanks
and combat vehicles. Battleships and cruisers opened fire and disrupted
Bases
the mobilizing Renegade forces. The battle for Ku Crassus had begunl.
GL2
Planetary Area 7, see map
GL2
Planetary Area 4, see map
BOARD SET-UP
GL3
Planetary Area 7, see map
This scenario uses all the rules for Prefect, including those given in
GL4
Pianetary Area 10. see map
the campaign game section. The curtent locations of the main bases,
GL 4
Planetary Area 7, see map
planets, and planetoids are given below.
ON4
Zone 3, 11
Gn3
Ku Crassus, Orbital Segmentf
Zone
Planet Name
Sector
Planetary Area 7, see map
Ku Crassus
GN2
Traverse, Orbital Segment/
New Mandella
12
Planetary Area 2
Sizzlestone
GN2
7. 44
Traverse
12
GN2
7, 67
Maskin Asteroid Belt
Spider's Web Asteroid Belt 7
Reinforcements
49007th Battleship Squadron
See special rules
Commonwealth Forces
1 Militia Regiment per turn
See special rules
2 Light Transport Squadrons
Turn 20 in Outsysten Area
49989th Long Range Patrol Squadron
1 Medium Transport Squadron
Tum 20 in Outsystem Area
1 Cruiser (CA)
212th Bauffrin Regiment
Turn 20 in Outsystem Area
1 Defense Squadron (D Sqd)
2 GL1
Turn 25 in QOutsysterm Area
3 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL1)
GL2
Tum 30 in Outsystem Area
2 Medium Fighter Flights Type 1 (FM1)
3 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
Supply Points Per Turn: 2 per city controlled
44454th Pursuit Squadron
Outsystem Replacement Rate: 3 units per turn
1 Pursuit Squadron (P Sqd)
1 Medium Fighter Flights Type 1 (FM1)
Commonwealth/Renegade Set-Up
2 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
The Commonwealth/Renegade player is the Defender for the first turn and
sets up first. All naval forces tmust be forned into Task Forces and deployed at
3009th Royal Commonwealth Attack Wing
any niaval base on the systerr map. They may also be deployed in the Functional
3 Independent Light Fighter Fights Type 1
Naval Unit Box of the Commoriwealth Outsystem Area Chart.
2 Independent Light Fighter Flights Type 2
All grav forces should be deployed in Task Forces and placed
3 Independent Medium Fighter Flights Type 1
anywhere or the planetary map, The Militia Regiments may be deployed
2 Independent Medium Fighter Flights Type 2
separately. They may not set up on Water hexes.
2 Independent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1
Marine Cohorts must be deployed to naval bases.
3 Independent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2
All bases, headquarters anid transports begin the scenario with their
maximum carrying capacity of supply.
49007th Battleship Squadron (see special rules)
1 Battleship (BA)
1 Cruiser (CA)
2 Defense Squadrons
1 Pursuit Squadron (Pur. Sqd)
3 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL1)
3 Light Fighter Flights Type 2 (FL2)
4 Medium Fighter Flights Type (FM1)
4 Medium Fighter Flights Type 2 (FM2)
4 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1 (FH1)
4 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)

--- PAGE 58 [OCR] ---
SCENARIOS
TOG Forces
SPECLAL RULES
The 12299th Battleship Squadron is assigned to support only the
68011th Raiding Squadron
initial wave of the invasion, and must be deployed in Task Forces
1 Frigate Class Carrier (FGV)
scheduled to exit T-space at the sarne time. In other words, all elements of
1 Cruiser (CA)
the Battleship Squadron must be placed on the system map during the
2 Defense Squadrons (D Sqd)
same turn. The Squadron is only available to the TOG player foreight tums
4 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL1)
following its deployment on the system map. At the start of Turn 9, all
6 Light Fighter Flights Type 2 (FL2)
elerments of the Squadron must be given a withdrawal order and taken off
5 Medium Fighter Flights Type 1 (FM1)
the system map, if still deployed. Any elements of the Battleship Squadron
5 Medium Fighter Flights Type 2 (FM2)
in the outsystem area are removed from both the Destroyed and Functional
4 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1 (FH1)
Unit Boxes of the Outsysterm Area Chart. Elerments of the Squadron must
4 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
also be removed from the T-space Travel Time Track.
Fighter Flights that cannot be withdrawn from the system for lack of
45309th Carrier Squadron
trarisport are itrmediately destroyed, and the Renegade player is awarded
1 Destroyer Class Carrier (DDV)
victory points for each Flight's destruction.
1 Pursuit Squadron (P Sqd)
The Commonwealth 49007th Battleship Squadron is the theater
5 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL1)
commander's reaction force for this sector of Shannedam County, and will
5 Medium Fighter Flights Type 2 (FM2)
be released to the Africanrius system cormmander only if the TOG
Battleship is in the system or has been detected in T-space.
991st Comnbat Wing
Ifelements of the 12299th are detected as they emerge from T-space,
3 Independent Light Fighter Flights Type 1
the Renegade Commander can transfer any and all elements of the 49007th
2 Independent Light Fighter Flights Type 2
to any Renegade Task Force assigned a system defense mission as if they
3 Independent Medium Fighter Flights Type 1
were an insystem force.
2 Independent Medium Fighter Flights Type 2
If no elements of the TOG 12299th Battleship Squadron are detected
3 Independent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1
in T-space, then the 12299th is placed in the outsystem area and can be
2 Irdependent Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2
formed into a Task Force during the turn's Task Force Adjustrnent Phase.
The Commonwealth 49007th must be withdrawn at the same time and in
12299th Battleship Squadron (See Special Rules)
the same manner as the 12299th.
1 Battleship (BB)
2 Cruisers (CA)
Militia Regiments
2 Defense Squadrons
Beginning with Turm 1, the Commonwealth/Renegade player re-
3 Light Fighter Flights Type 1 (FL1)
ceives one Militia Regiment each turn until Turn 24. The Regimernits can
3 Light Fighter Flights Type 2 (FL2)
be placed in any city or Legion base the player controls.
3 Mediurm Fighter Flights Type 1 (FM1)
3 Medium Fighter Flights Type 2 (FM2)
GAME LENGTH
3 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 1 (FH1)
This scenario lasts fifty turns.
3 Heavy Fighter Flights Type 2 (FH2)
VICTORY CONDITIONS
TOG Merchant Marine Supply Group
Players are awarded victory points for destroying eremy units and
6 Light Transport Squadrons (TRL)
bases, and for capturing enemy bases and urban centers.
4 Medium Transport Squadrons (TRM)
Players receive the rebuild cost of any unit or base their forces destroy
as victory points, The players also receive the rebuild cost of any enemy
Grav Forces
Set-up Area
base their forces capture as victory points.
786th Strike Legian
Outsystem Area
Players receive 10 VP for each urbar center captured and held at the
4245th Infantry Legion
Qutsystem Area
end of the game.
3914th Recon Auxilia
Outsystem Area
At the end of fifty turmns, the players add up their victory points and
compare the totals. To detennine the Victory Level, divide the highest
Garrison Legions: 4
Outsystem Area
total by the lowest total, and consult the Outcome Table below.
Bases
2 GLt
Outsystem Area
OUTCOME TABL
2 GL2
Outsystem Area
Ratio
High-Scoring Player
Low-Scoring Player
2 ON 1
Outsystem Area
3+
Decisive Victory
Decisive Defeat
2 GN2
Outsystem Area
Substantial Victory
2-2.99
Substantial Defeat
1.5-1.99
Marginal Victory
Marginal Defeat
Outsystem Replacernent Rate: 4 units per turn
1.49 or less
Draw
Draw
TOG Set-Up
All TOG forces begin the scenario in the putsystem area. The TOG
player is the Attacker for the first tum.

--- PAGE 59 [OCR] ---
PREFECT
NOTE: GN3 is ony used in INVASION scenario, and TOG GL2 in area 9 is only used during the LIBERATION scenario.
MAP FOR INVASION AND LIBERATION SCENARIOS
PLANETARY
FLANETARY
AREA #5
AREA#10
PLANETARY
PLANETARY
AAEA#A
AREAN9
15 RIC:I
PLANETARY
PLANETARY
AHEA算3
AREA 8
PLANETARY
PLANETARY
AREA #2
AREA #7
UP
PLANETARY
PLANETARY
AREA#1
AREA6
SET

--- PAGE 60 [OCR] ---
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
AUXILLA TASK FORCE
AUXILLA TASK FORCE
AUXILLA TASK FORCE
RECORD SHEE
110
111
112
113
114
11
116
117
118
119
120
100

--- PAGE 61 [OCR] ---
IEGON TASK FOR(T
10
11
12
14
16
17
1.FGON TASK FOR(F
10
11
12
13
14
16
17
18

--- PAGE 62 [OCR] ---
101
102
103
104
NAVAL TASK FOR(E
105
106
107
SPPIY RF(ORD :
108
109
110
111
112
TRAC:K
113
I-SPACE TRAVEI TIMF TRA('K
114
DESTOYED
AYAS
115
OETSYSTFI ARFA
116
117
118
FUNCTIONAL
119
120
100

--- PAGE 63 [OCR] ---
OReITAL FORCE ALLOCATION CHART
KU CRASSUS
OrBIt SEg
ORBIT SEG
OrbIt seg
ORBIt SEG
OrbIt seg
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORbIT sEG
10
ORBITAL FORCE ALLOCATION CHART
SIZZLE STONE
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBITAL FORCE ALLOCATION CHART
NEW MANDELLA
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
OrBIT SEG
ORBIT SECG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
ORBIT SEG
10
ORBITAL FORCE ALLOCATION CHART
TRAVERSE
 SEG
ORBIT
ORBIT
 SEG
ORBIT
ORBIT SEG